For a long time in my life , I felt like I 'd been living two different lives . There 's the life that everyone sees , and then there 's the life that only I see . And in the life that everyone sees , who I am is a friend , a son , a brother , a stand-up comedian and a teenager . That 's the life everyone sees . If you were to ask my friends and family to describe me , that 's what they would tell you . And that 's a huge part of me . That is who I am . And if you were to ask me to describe myself , I 'd probably say some of those same things . And I would n't be lying , but I would n't totally be telling you the truth , either , because the truth is , that 's just the life everyone else sees . In the life that only I see , who I am , who I really am , is someone who struggles intensely with depression . I have for the last six years of my life , and I continue to every day . Now , for someone who has never experienced depression or does n't really know what that means , that might surprise them to hear , because there 's this pretty popular misconception that depression is just being sad when something in your life goes wrong , when you break up with your girlfriend , when you lose a loved one , when you do n't get the job you wanted . But that 's sadness . That 's a natural thing . That 's a natural human emotion . Real depression is n't being sad when something in your life goes wrong . Real depression is being sad when everything in your life is going right . That 's real depression , and that 's what I suffer from . And to be totally honest , that 's hard for me to stand up here and say . It 's hard for me to talk about , and it seems to be hard for everyone to talk about , so much so that no one 's talking about it . And no one 's talking about depression , but we need to be , because right now it 's a massive problem . It 's a massive problem . But we do n't see it on social media , right ? We do n't see it on Facebook . We do n't see it on Twitter . We do n't see it on the news , because it 's not happy , it 's not fun , it 's not light . And so because we do n't see it , we do n't see the severity of it . But the severity of it and the seriousness of it is this : every 30 seconds , every 30 seconds , somewhere , someone in the world takes their own life because of depression , and it might be two blocks away , it might be two countries away , it might be two continents away , but it 's happening , and it 's happening every single day . And we have a tendency , as a society , to look at that and go , `` So what ? '' So what ? We look at that , and we go , `` That 's your problem . That 's their problem . '' We say we 're sad and we say we 're sorry , but we also say , `` So what ? '' Well , two years ago it was my problem , because I sat on the edge of my bed where I 'd sat a million times before and I was suicidal . I was suicidal , and if you were to look at my life on the surface , you would n't see a kid who was suicidal . You 'd see a kid who was the captain of his basketball team , the drama and theater student of the year , the English student of the year , someone who was consistently on the honor roll and consistently at every party . So you would say I was n't depressed , you would say I was n't suicidal , but you would be wrong . You would be wrong . So I sat there that night beside a bottle of pills with a pen and paper in my hand and I thought about taking my own life and I came this close to doing it . I came this close to doing it . And I did n't , so that makes me one of the lucky ones , one of the people who gets to step out on the ledge and look down but not jump , one of the lucky ones who survives . Well , I survived , and that just leaves me with my story , and my story is this : In four simple words , I suffer from depression . I suffer from depression , and for a long time , I think , I was living two totally different lives , where one person was always afraid of the other . I was afraid that people would see me for who I really was , that I was n't the perfect , popular kid in high school everyone thought I was , that beneath my smile , there was struggle , and beneath my light , there was dark , and beneath my big personality just hid even bigger pain . See , some people might fear girls not liking them back . Some people might fear sharks . Some people might fear death . But for me , for a large part of my life , I feared myself . I feared my truth , I feared my honesty , I feared my vulnerability , and that fear made me feel like I was forced into a corner , like I was forced into a corner and there was only one way out , and so I thought about that way every single day . I thought about it every single day , and if I 'm being totally honest , standing here I 've thought about it again since , because that 's the sickness , that 's the struggle , that 's depression , and depression is n't chicken pox . You do n't beat it once and it 's gone forever . It 's something you live with . It 's something you live in . It 's the roommate you ca n't kick out . It 's the voice you ca n't ignore . It 's the feelings you ca n't seem to escape , the scariest part is that after a while , you become numb to it . It becomes normal for you , and what you really fear the most is n't the suffering inside of you . It 's the stigma inside of others , it 's the shame , it 's the embarrassment , it 's the disapproving look on a friend 's face , it 's the whispers in the hallway that you 're weak , it 's the comments that you 're crazy . That 's what keeps you from getting help . That 's what makes you hold it in and hide it . It 's the stigma . So you hold it in and you hide it , and you hold it in and you hide it , and even though it 's keeping you in bed every day and it 's making your life feel empty no matter how much you try and fill it , you hide it , because the stigma in our society around depression is very real . It 's very real , and if you think that it is n't , ask yourself this : Would you rather make your next Facebook status say you 're having a tough time getting out of bed because you hurt your back or you 're having a tough time getting out of bed every morning because you 're depressed ? That 's the stigma , because unfortunately , we live in a world where if you break your arm , everyone runs over to sign your cast , but if you tell people you 're depressed , everyone runs the other way . That 's the stigma . We are so , so , so accepting of any body part breaking down other than our brains . And that 's ignorance . That 's pure ignorance , and that ignorance has created a world that does n't understand depression , that does n't understand mental health . And that 's ironic to me , because depression is one of the best documented problems we have in the world , yet it 's one of the least discussed . We just push it aside and put it in a corner and pretend it 's not there and hope it 'll fix itself . Well , it wo n't . It has n't , and it 's not going to , because that 's wishful thinking , and wishful thinking is n't a game plan , it 's procrastination , and we ca n't procrastinate on something this important . The first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one . Well , we have n't done that , so we ca n't really expect to find an answer when we 're still afraid of the question . And I do n't know what the solution is . I wish I did , but I do n't -- but I think , I think it has to start here . It has to start with me , it has to start with you , it has to start with the people who are suffering , the ones who are hidden in the shadows . We need to speak up and shatter the silence . We need to be the ones who are brave for what we believe in , because if there 's one thing that I 've come to realize , if there 's one thing that I see as the biggest problem , it 's not in building a world where we eliminate the ignorance of others . It 's in building a world where we teach the acceptance of ourselves , where we 're okay with who we are , because when we get honest , we see that we all struggle and we all suffer . Whether it 's with this , whether it 's with something else , we all know what it is to hurt . We all know what it is to have pain in our heart , and we all know how important it is to heal . But right now , depression is society 's deep cut that we 're content to put a Band-Aid over and pretend it 's not there . Well , it is there . It is there , and you know what ? It 's okay . Depression is okay . If you 're going through it , know that you 're okay . And know that you 're sick , you 're not weak , and it 's an issue , not an identity , because when you get past the fear and the ridicule and the judgment and the stigma of others , you can see depression for what it really is , and that 's just a part of life , just a part of life , and as much as I hate , as much as I hate some of the places , some of the parts of my life depression has dragged me down to , in a lot of ways I 'm grateful for it . Because yeah , it 's put me in the valleys , but only to show me there 's peaks , and yeah it 's dragged me through the dark but only to remind me there is light . My pain , more than anything in 19 years on this planet , has given me perspective , and my hurt , my hurt has forced me to have hope , have hope and to have faith , faith in myself , faith in others , faith that it can get better , that we can change this , that we can speak up and speak out and fight back against ignorance , fight back against intolerance , and more than anything , learn to love ourselves , learn to accept ourselves for who we are , the people we are , not the people the world wants us to be . Because the world I believe in is one where embracing your light does n't mean ignoring your dark . The world I believe in is one where we 're measured by our ability to overcome adversities , not avoid them . The world I believe in is one where I can look someone in the eye and say , `` I 'm going through hell , '' and they can look back at me and go , `` Me too , '' and that 's okay , and it 's okay because depression is okay . We 're people . We 're people , and we struggle and we suffer and we bleed and we cry , and if you think that true strength means never showing any weakness , then I 'm here to tell you you 're wrong . You 're wrong , because it 's the opposite . We 're people , and we have problems . We 're not perfect , and that 's okay . So we need to stop the ignorance , stop the intolerance , stop the stigma , and stop the silence , and we need to take away the taboos , take a look at the truth , and start talking , because the only way we 're going to beat a problem that people are battling alone is by standing strong together , by standing strong together . And I believe that we can . I believe that we can . Thank you guys so much . This is a dream come true . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) 