There 's a group of people in Kenya . People cross oceans to go see them . These people are tall . They jump high . They wear red . And they kill lions . You might be wondering , who are these people ? These are the Maasais . And you know what 's cool ? I 'm actually one of them . The Maasais , the boys are brought up to be warriors . The girls are brought up to be mothers . When I was five years old , I found out that I was engaged to be married as soon as I reached puberty . My mother , my grandmother , my aunties , they constantly reminded me that your husband just passed by . ( Laughter ) Cool , yeah ? And everything I had to do from that moment was to prepare me to be a perfect woman at age 12 . I went to school not because the Maasais ' women or girls were going to school . When I went to school , I had a dream . I worked hard in school , but when I was in eighth grade , it was a determining factor . I did . As you can imagine , I bled . Well , while I was in high school , something happened . I told him , `` Well , I want to go to where you are , '' because this man looked very happy , and I admired that . And he told me , `` Well , what do you mean , you want to go ? Do n't you have a husband waiting for you ? '' And I told him , `` Do n't worry about that part . This gentleman , he helped me . So the news came , I applied to school and I was accepted to Randolph-Macon Woman 's College in Lynchburg , Virginia , and I could n't come without the support of the village , because I needed to raise money to buy the air ticket . So I went back and I had to go back to the tradition . `` My child , what are you doing here ? '' `` Well , Dad , I need help . He said , `` Well , but I ca n't do it alone . I arrived in America . I enjoyed myself , but during that moment while I was here , I discovered a lot of things . As I went back , I started talking to the men , to the village , and mothers , and I said , `` I want to give back the way I had promised you that I would come back and help you . As I spoke to the women , they told me , `` You know what we need ? We really need a school for girls . As we moved , and I went to talk to the fathers , the fathers , of course , you can imagine what they said : `` We want a school for boys . And I said , `` Well , there are a couple of men from my village who have been out and they have gotten an education . I want you to meet one of the girls in that school . As a new dawn is happening in my school , a new beginning is happening . ( Applause ) I want to challenge you today . ( Applause ) 