I 'm gon na talk a little bit about open-source security , because we 've got to get better at security in this 21st century . Let me start by saying , let 's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us . This is Verdun , a battlefield in France just north of the NATO headquarters in Belgium . At Verdun , in 1916 , over a 300-day period , 700,000 people were killed , so about 2,000 a day . If you roll it forward -- 20th-century security -- into the Second World War , you see the Battle of Stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed . We go into the Cold War , and we continue to try and build walls . We go from the trench warfare of the First World War to the Maginot Line of the Second World War , and then we go into the Cold War , the Iron Curtain , the Berlin Wall . Walls do n't work . My thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges . This is a famous bridge in Europe . It 's in Bosnia-Herzegovina . It 's the bridge over the Drina River , the subject of a novel by Ivo Andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of Europe and the Balkans , over time there 's been enormous building of walls . More recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together . I would argue , again , open-source security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the private-public , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks . So let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls . Now , I 'm a sailor , obviously . This is a ship , a liner , clipping through the Indian Ocean . What 's wrong with this picture ? It 's got concertina wire along the sides of it . That 's to prevent pirates from attacking it . Piracy is a very active threat today around the world . This is in the Indian Ocean . Piracy is also very active in the Strait of Malacca . It 's active in the Gulf of Guinea . We see it in the Caribbean . It 's a $ 10-billion-a-year discontinuity in the global transport system . Last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage . This is an attack on the global commons . We need to think about how to address it . Let 's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea . Here are photographs of two young men . At the moment , they 're incarcerated . They conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars . This is part of cybercrime which is a $ 2-trillion-a-year discontinuity in the global economy . Two trillion a year . That 's just under the GDP of Great Britain . So this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well . Another thing I worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of Afghanistan through Europe over to the United States . We worry about cocaine coming from the Andean Ridge north . We worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . Above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it . Trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons . This is a photograph , and I wish I could tell you that this is a very high-tech piece of US Navy gear that we 're using to stop the trafficking . The bad news is , this is a semi-submersible run by drug cartels . It was built in the jungles of South America . We caught it with that low-tech raft — ( Laughter ) — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine . And let 's pull it together in Afghanistan today . So here we are , 21st century . I would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun . But my thesis is , open-source security is about international , interagency , private-public connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the Internet . Let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way . You would be correct . Eighty-five percent can not read when they enter the security forces of Afghanistan . So the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ? The answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by NATO in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies . When you can read and write in Afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket . Now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but I would argue , open-source security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect . Here 's another example . To give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the Comfort . Here you see baseball players . Another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief . We tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this . Why do we want to get in these nets ? Why do we want to be involved ? We talked earlier about the Arab Spring , and the power of all this . I gave a talk like this in London a while back about this point . And the story was a catalyst , and the next morning I had hundreds of Facebook friend requests from Indonesians and Finns , mostly saying , `` Admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is NATO ? '' ( Laughter ) So ... ( Laughter ) Yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , private-public , and these social nets to help create security . Now , let me hit a somber note . But , you know , life is not an on-and-off switch . I would argue life is a rheostat . I would close by saying that we heard earlier today about Wikipedia . The vision statement of Wikipedia is very simple : a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge . Thank you . Thank you very much . 