Have you ever experienced a moment in your life that was so painful and confusing , that all you wanted to do was learn as much as you could to make sense of it all ? When I was 13 , a close family friend who was like an uncle to me passed away from pancreatic cancer . When the disease hit so close to home , I knew I needed to learn more . So I went online to find answers . Using the Internet , I found a variety of statistics on pancreatic cancer , and what I had found shocked me . Over 85 percent of all pancreatic cancers are diagnosed late , when someone has less than a two percent chance of survival . Why are we so bad at detecting pancreatic cancer ? The reason ? Today 's current `` modern '' medicine is a 60-year-old technique . That 's older than my dad . ( Laughter ) But also , it 's extremely expensive , costing 800 dollars per test , and it 's grossly inaccurate , missing 30 percent of all pancreatic cancers . Now , there 's a reason why this test has n't been updated in over six decades . However , undeterred due to my teenage optimism -- ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) I went online to a teenager 's two best friends , Google and Wikipedia . ( Laughter ) And what I had found was an article that listed a database of over 8,000 different proteins that are found when you have pancreatic cancer . And so I 'm just plugging and chugging through this gargantuan task , and finally , on the 4,000th try , when I 'm close to losing my sanity , I find the protein . So now that I 'd found a reliable protein I could detect , I then shifted my focus to actually detecting that protein , and thus , pancreatic cancer . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) And I had snuck in this article on these things called carbon nanotubes , and that 's just a long , thin pipe of carbon that 's an atom thick , and one 50,000th the diameter of your hair . However , there 's a catch . ( Laughs ) You start with some water , pour in some nanotubes , add antibodies , mix it up , take some paper , dip it , dry it , and you can detect cancer . ( Applause ) Then , suddenly , a thought occurred that kind of put a blemish on my amazing plan here . And -- ( Laughter ) Then reality took hold , and over the course of a month , I got 199 rejections out of those 200 emails . However , there is a silver lining . ( Laughter ) As you can never say no to a kid . And so then , three months later , I finally nailed down a harsh deadline with this guy , and I get into his lab , I get all excited , and then I sit down , I start opening my mouth and talking , and five seconds later he calls in another Ph.D. Ph.D.s just flock into this little room , and they 're just firing these questions at me , and by the end , I kind of felt like I was in a clown car . ( Laughter ) However , subjecting myself to that interrogation -- I answered all their questions , and I guessed on quite a few but I got them right -- and I finally landed the lab space I needed . But it was shortly afterwards that I discovered my once brilliant procedure had something like a million holes in it , and over the course of seven months , I painstakingly filled each and every one of those holes . The result ? One small paper sensor that costs three cents and takes five minutes to run . ( Applause ) One of the best parts of the sensor , though , is that it has close to 100 percent accuracy , and can detect the cancer in the earliest stages , when someone has close to 100 percent chance of survival . But it would n't stop there . And so , hopefully one day , we can all have that one extra uncle , that one mother , that one brother , sister , we can have that one more family member to love . ( Laughter ) You could be changing the world . So if a 15 year-old who did n't even know what a pancreas was could find a new way to detect pancreatic cancer -- just imagine what you could do . Thank you . ( Applause ) 