I am going to talk about myself , which I rarely do , because I -- well for one thing , I prefer to talk about things I know nothing about . And secondly , I 'm a recovering narcissist . ( Laughter ) I did n't know I was a narcissist actually . But I want to , though , explain how I came to design my own particular brand of comedy because I 've been through so many different forms of it . And of course we live in a society that 's all about contradicting other peoples ' reality . ( Laughter ) And I suppose it 's a contradiction that I talk about science when I do n't know math . ( Laughter ) Of course , by talking about science I also may , as I did the other night , incur the violent wrath of some scientists who were very upset with me . I have questions with the values of Newtonian science , like rationality . Voice offstage : Richard . Emily Levine : Richard . That 's the other way that humor -- like Art Buchwald takes shots at the heads of state . There 's also a contradiction in rationality in this country though , which is , as much as we revere the head , we are very anti-intellectual . `` The act of a master taking painful contemptuous possession of her , was the kind of rapture she wanted . So you can imagine my surprise on reading in The New Yorker that Alan Greenspan , Chairman of the Federal Reserve , claims Ayn Rand as his intellectual mentor . ( Laughter ) And Ayn Rand of course , Ayn Rand is famous for a philosophy called Objectivism , which reflects another value of Newtonian physics , which is objectivity . I was so fascinated by that Oxygen commercial . And this still goes on as I think I told you last year . ( Laughter ) So this subject-object thing , is part of something I 'm very interested in because this is why , frankly , I believe in political correctness . I think you can make fun of the have but not the have-nots , which is why you do n't see me making fun of Kenneth Lay and his charming wife . So this whole subject-object thing has relevance to humor in this way . And in stand-up of course , the stand-up comedian is supposed to dominate the audience . I really miss the old telemarketers now , I 'll tell you that . ( Laughter ) But the interactivity allows the audience to shape what you 're going to do as much as you shape their experience of the world . ( Phone Ringing ) I hope that 's my agent , because you are n't paying me anything . ( Laughter ) And I think it 's good to talk about things I know nothing about because I bring a fresh viewpoint to it , you know ? I 'm able to see the contradiction that you may not be able to see . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) And you know people , this is the problem with quote , objectivity , unquote . My grandmother always acted in other people 's interests , whether they wanted her to or not . ( Laughter ) So that 's one -- this boundary crossing , this go-between which -- Fritz Lanting , is that his name , actually said that he was a go-between . I think there 's another philosophical construction . ( Laughter ) And another attribute of the trickster is smart luck . But here 's how I think I like to make change , and that is in making connections . Like I 'll read that one of the two attributes of matter in the Newtonian universe -- there are two attributes of matter in the Newtonian universe -- one is space occupancy . Well , in ancient Rome , impenetrability was the criterion of masculinity . ( Laughter ) And what I hope to do , when I make these connections , is short circuit people 's thinking . have you heard this joke about the woman driving with her mother ? And the mother is elderly . ( Laughter ) And that 's the shock of recognition at the shock of recognition . ( Laughter ) I just want to say two more things . I was thinking about what Moshe Safdie said yesterday about beauty because in his book , Hyde says that sometimes trickster can tip over into beauty . And the one final quality I want to say about trickster is that he does n't have a home . ( Applause ) 