The Olympic motto is `` Citius , Altius , Fortius . '' Faster , Higher , Stronger . And athletes have fulfilled that motto rapidly . The winner of the 2012 Olympic marathon ran two hours and eight minutes . Had he been racing against the winner of the 1904 Olympic marathon , he would have won by nearly an hour and a half . Now we all have this feeling that we 're somehow just getting better as a human race , inexorably progressing , but it 's not like we 've evolved into a new species in a century . So what 's going on here ? I want to take a look at what 's really behind this march of athletic progress . In 1936 , Jesse Owens held the world record in the 100 meters . Had Jesse Owens been racing last year in the world championships of the 100 meters , when Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt finished , Owens would have still had 14 feet to go . That 's a lot in sprinter land . To give you a sense of how much it is , I want to share with you a demonstration conceived by sports scientist Ross Tucker . Now picture the stadium last year at the world championships of the 100 meters : thousands of fans waiting with baited breath to see Usain Bolt , the fastest man in history ; flashbulbs popping as the nine fastest men in the world coil themselves into their blocks . And I want you to pretend that Jesse Owens is in that race . Now close your eyes for a second and picture the race . Bang ! The gun goes off . An American sprinter jumps out to the front . Usain Bolt starts to catch him . Usain Bolt passes him , and as the runners come to the finish , you 'll hear a beep as each man crosses the line . ( Beeps ) That 's the entire finish of the race . You can open your eyes now . That first beep was Usain Bolt . That last beep was Jesse Owens . Listen to it again . ( Beeps ) When you think of it like that , it 's not that big a difference , is it ? And then consider that Usain Bolt started by propelling himself out of blocks down a specially fabricated carpet designed to allow him to travel as fast as humanly possible . Jesse Owens , on the other hand , ran on cinders , the ash from burnt wood , and that soft surface stole far more energy from his legs as he ran . Rather than blocks , Jesse Owens had a gardening trowel that he had to use to dig holes in the cinders to start from . Biomechanical analysis of the speed of Owens ' joints shows that had been running on the same surface as Bolt , he would n't have been 14 feet behind , he would have been within one stride . Rather than the last beep , Owens would have been the second beep . Listen to it again . ( Beeps ) That 's the difference track surface technology has made , and it 's done it throughout the running world . Consider a longer event . In 1954 , Sir Roger Bannister became the first man to run under four minutes in the mile . Nowadays , college kids do that every year . On rare occasions , a high school kid does it . As of the end of last year , 1,314 men had run under four minutes in the mile , but like Jesse Owens , Sir Roger Bannister ran on soft cinders that stole far more energy from his legs than the synthetic tracks of today . So I consulted biomechanics experts to find out how much slower it is to run on cinders than synthetic tracks , and their consensus that it 's one and a half percent slower . So if you apply a one and a half percent slowdown conversion to every man who ran his sub-four mile on a synthetic track , this is what happens . Only 530 are left . If you look at it from that perspective , fewer than ten new men per [ year ] have joined the sub-four mile club since Sir Roger Bannister . Now , 530 is a lot more than one , and that 's partly because there are many more people training today and they 're training more intelligently . Even college kids are professional in their training compared to Sir Roger Bannister , who trained for 45 minutes at a time while he ditched gynecology lectures in med school . And that guy who won the 1904 Olympic marathon in three in a half hours , that guy was drinking rat poison and brandy while he ran along the course . That was his idea of a performance-enhancing drug . ( Laughter ) Clearly , athletes have gotten more savvy about performance-enhancing drugs as well , and that 's made a difference in some sports at some times , but technology has made a difference in all sports , from faster skis to lighter shoes . Throughout sports , technology has changed the face of performance . Still , technology is n't the only thing pushing athletes forward . In fact , if you plot on a height versus mass graph one data point for each of two dozen sports in the first half of the 20th century , it looks like this . In sports where height is prized , like basketball , the tall athletes got taller . So in sports where large size is prized , the large athletes have gotten larger . Now in some cases , the search for bodies that could push athletic performance forward ended up introducing into the competitive world populations of people that were n't previously competing at all , like Kenyan distance runners . Still , even changing technology and the changing gene pool in sports do n't account for all of the changes in performance . Changing technology , changing genes , and a changing mindset . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 