America 's favorite pie is ? Audience : Apple . Kenneth Cukier : Apple . Of course it is . How do we know it ? Because of data . You look at supermarket sales . You look at supermarket sales of 30-centimeter pies that are frozen , and apple wins , no contest . The majority of the sales are apple . But then supermarkets started selling smaller , 11-centimeter pies , and suddenly , apple fell to fourth or fifth place . Why ? What happened ? Okay , think about it . When you buy a 30-centimeter pie , the whole family has to agree , and apple is everyone 's second favorite . ( Laughter ) But when you buy an individual 11-centimeter pie , you can buy the one that you want . Now , the point here is that more data does n't just let us see more , more of the same thing we were looking at . Now , you probably all have heard the term big data . So what is new about big data ? What is the big deal ? Well , to answer that question , let 's think about what information looked like , physically looked like in the past . Now , society has n't advanced all that much . Now , one reason why we have so much data in the world today is we are collecting things that we 've always collected information on , but another reason why is we 're taking things that have always been informational but have never been rendered into a data format and we are putting it into data . Now think , for example , of the issue of posture , the way that you are all sitting right now , the way that you sit , the way that you sit , the way that you sit . So what could we do with this ? Researchers in Tokyo are using it as a potential anti-theft device in cars . What if every single car in Europe had this technology in it ? What could we do then ? Maybe , if we aggregated the data , maybe we could identify telltale signs that best predict that a car accident is going to take place in the next five seconds . So what is the value of big data ? Well , think about it . And this idea of machine learning is going everywhere . Machine learning is at the basis of many of the things that we do online : search engines , Amazon 's personalization algorithm , computer translation , voice recognition systems . Now , there are dark sides to big data as well . There is another problem : Big data is going to steal our jobs . Big data is going to transform how we live , how we work and how we think . ( Applause ) 