On June 12 , 2014 , precisely at 3:33 in a balmy winter afternoon in São Paulo , Brazil , a typical South American winter afternoon , this kid , this young man that you see celebrating here like he had scored a goal , Juliano Pinto , 29 years old , accomplished a magnificent deed . Despite being paralyzed and not having any sensation from mid-chest to the tip of his toes as the result of a car crash six years ago that killed his brother and produced a complete spinal cord lesion that left Juliano in a wheelchair , Juliano rose to the occasion , and on this day did something that pretty much everybody that saw him in the six years deemed impossible . Juliano Pinto delivered the opening kick of the 2014 Brazilian World Soccer Cup here just by thinking . He could not move his body , but he could imagine the movements needed to kick a ball . He was an athlete before the lesion . He 's a para-athlete right now . He 's going to be in the Paralympic Games , I hope , in a couple years . But what the spinal cord lesion did not rob from Juliano was his ability to dream . And dream he did that afternoon , for a stadium of about 75,000 people and an audience of close to a billion watching on TV . And that kick crowned , basically , 30 years of basic research studying how the brain , how this amazing universe that we have between our ears that is only comparable to universe that we have above our head because it has about 100 billion elements talking to each other through electrical brainstorms , what Juliano accomplished took 30 years to imagine in laboratories and about 15 years to plan . When John Chapin and I , 15 years ago , proposed in a paper that we would build something that we called a brain-machine interface , meaning connecting a brain to devices so that animals and humans could just move these devices , no matter how far they are from their own bodies , just by imagining what they want to do , our colleagues told us that we actually needed professional help , of the psychiatry variety . And despite that , a Scot and a Brazilian persevered , because that 's how we were raised in our respective countries , and for 12 , 15 years , we made demonstration after demonstration suggesting that this was possible . And a brain-machine interface is not rocket science , it 's just brain research . It 's nothing but using sensors to read the electrical brainstorms that a brain is producing to generate the motor commands that have to be downloaded to the spinal cord , so we projected sensors that can read hundreds and now thousands of these brain cells simultaneously , and extract from these electrical signals the motor planning that the brain is generating to actually make us move into space . And by doing that , we converted these signals into digital commands that any mechanical , electronic , or even a virtual device can understand so that the subject can imagine what he , she or it wants to make move , and the device obeys that brain command . By sensorizing these devices with lots of different types of sensors , as you are going to see in a moment , we actually sent messages back to the brain to confirm that that voluntary motor will was being enacted , no matter where -- next to the subject , next door , or across the planet . And as this message gave feedback back to the brain , the brain realized its goal : to make us move . So this is just one experiment that we published a few years ago , where a monkey , without moving its body , learned to control the movements of an avatar arm , a virtual arm that does n't exist . What you 're listening to is the sound of the brain of this monkey as it explores three different visually identical spheres in virtual space . And to get a reward , a drop of orange juice that monkeys love , this animal has to detect , select one of these objects by touching , not by seeing it , by touching it , because every time this virtual hand touches one of the objects , an electrical pulse goes back to the brain of the animal describing the fine texture of the surface of this object , so the animal can judge what is the correct object that he has to grab , and if he does that , he gets a reward without moving a muscle . The perfect Brazilian lunch : not moving a muscle and getting your orange juice . So as we saw this happening , we actually came and proposed the idea that we had published 15 years ago . We reenacted this paper . We got it out of the drawers , and we proposed that perhaps we could get a human being that is paralyzed to actually use the brain-machine interface to regain mobility . The idea was that if you suffered -- and that can happen to any one of us . Let me tell you , it 's very sudden . It 's a millisecond of a collision , a car accident that transforms your life completely . If you have a complete lesion of the spinal cord , you can not move because your brainstorms can not reach your muscles . However , your brainstorms continue to be generated in your head . Paraplegic , quadriplegic patients dream about moving every night . They have that inside their head . The problem is how to get that code out of it and make the movement be created again . So what we proposed was , let 's create a new body . Let 's create a robotic vest . And that 's exactly why Juliano could kick that ball just by thinking , because he was wearing the first brain-controlled robotic vest that can be used by paraplegic , quadriplegic patients to move and to regain feedback . That was the original idea , 15 years ago . What I 'm going to show you is how 156 people from 25 countries all over the five continents of this beautiful Earth , dropped their lives , dropped their patents , dropped their dogs , wives , kids , school , jobs , and congregated to come to Brazil for 18 months to actually get this done . Because a couple years after Brazil was awarded the World Cup , we heard that the Brazilian government wanted to do something meaningful in the opening ceremony in the country that reinvented and perfected soccer until we met the Germans , of course . ( Laughter ) But that 's a different talk , and a different neuroscientist needs to talk about that . So we went together with these guys and we basically put this exoskeleton together , 15 degrees of freedom , hydraulic machine that can be commanded by brain signals recorded by a non-invasive technology called electroencephalography that can basically allow the patient to imagine the movements and send his commands to the controls , the motors , and get it done . So we got this going , and what you 'll see here is the first time one of our patients , Bruno , actually walked . So he walks , and at the end of the walk -- I am running out of time already -- he says , `` You know , guys , I need to borrow this thing from you when I get married , because I wanted to walk to the priest and see my bride and actually be there by myself . And this is what we wanted to show during the World Cup , and could n't , because for some mysterious reason , FIFA cut its broadcast in half . So where is this going to go ? I have two minutes to tell you that it 's going to the limits of your imagination . So this is the first demo . Well , we took this to a little higher limit by getting monkeys to collaborate mentally in a brain net , basically to donate their brain activity and combine them to move the virtual arm that I showed you before , and what you see here is the first time the two monkeys combine their brains , synchronize their brains perfectly to get this virtual arm to move . Where is this going ? We have no idea . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . Bruno Giussani : Miguel , thank you for sticking to your time . Miguel Nicolelis : No , it 's a little different . BG : How many times have you tested this ? And how many times have you succeeded versus failed ? MN : Oh , tens of times . Moderator : Wow . 