I was here four years ago , and I remember , at the time , that the talks were n't put online . I think they were given to TEDsters in a box , a box set of DVDs , which they put on their shelves , where they are now . ( Laughter ) And actually , Chris called me a week after I 'd given my talk , and said , `` We 're going to start putting them online . And four years later , it 's been downloaded four million times . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Do n't you feel ? ( Laughter ) So , this whole event has been an elaborate build-up to me doing another one for you , so here it is . ( Laughter ) Al Gore spoke at the TED conference I spoke at four years ago and talked about the climate crisis . ( Laughter ) So , as I was saying -- ( Laughter ) You see , he 's right . ( Laughter ) But I believe there is a second climate crisis , which is as severe , which has the same origins , and that we have to deal with with the same urgency . ( Laughter ) But this is a crisis of , not natural resources -- though I believe that 's true -- but a crisis of human resources . I believe fundamentally , as many speakers have said during the past few days , that we make very poor use of our talents . Actually , I kind of divide the world into two groups now . ( Laughter ) Well , I do . ( Laughter ) I meet all kinds of people who do n't enjoy what they do . ( Applause ) One of the real challenges is to innovate fundamentally in education . I came across a great quote recently from Abraham Lincoln , who I thought you 'd be pleased to have quoted at this point . ( Laughter ) He said this in December 1862 to the second annual meeting of Congress . ( Laughter ) We suppress it . ( Laughter ) No doubt , something fascinating was happening then , which the Americans among us will be aware of . But he said this : `` The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present . I love that word , `` disenthrall . ( Laughter ) Let me ask you something you may take for granted . ( Laughter ) `` Like , how lame is that ? '' And I say , `` No , no , it tells the date as well . ( Laughter ) `` It has multiple functions . ( Laughter ) But , you see , there are things we 're enthralled to in education . And I was up in San Francisco a while ago doing a book signing . ( Laughter ) He said , `` But I wanted to be a fireman . ( Laughter ) He said , `` He was in a car wreck , and I pulled him out , gave him CPR , and I saved his wife 's life as well . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) You know , to me , human communities depend upon a diversity of talent , not a singular conception of ability . ( Applause ) At the heart of the challenge is to reconstitute our sense of ability and of intelligence . When I arrived in L.A. about nine years ago , I came across a policy statement -- very well-intentioned -- which said , `` College begins in kindergarten . ( Laughter ) It does n't . ( Laughter ) Kindergarten begins in kindergarten . ( Laughter ) A friend of mine once said , `` A three year-old is not half a six year-old . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) They 're three . But as we just heard in this last session , there 's such competition now to get into kindergarten -- to get to the right kindergarten -- that people are being interviewed for it at three . ( Laughter ) Flicking through and saying , `` What , this is it ? '' ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) `` You 've been around for 36 months , and this is it ? '' ( Laughter ) `` You 've achieved nothing -- commit . ( Laughter ) Spent the first six months breastfeeding , I can see . ( Laughter ) See , it 's outrageous as a conception . The other big issue is conformity . ( Applause ) We have to recognize a couple of things here . ( Laughter ) It worked out for Eric , that 's all I 'm saying . ( Laughter ) In a way -- it did not for me . ( Laughter ) But it 's not only about that . So I think we have to change metaphors . So when we look at reforming education and transforming it , it is n't like cloning a system . Now in this room , there are people who represent extraordinary resources in business , in multimedia , in the Internet . There 's been a lot of talk about dreams over the course of these few days . He says this : `` Had I the heavens ' embroidered cloths , Enwrought with gold and silver light , The blue and the dim and the dark cloths Of night and light and the half-light , I would spread the cloths under your feet : But I , being poor , have only my dreams ; I have spread my dreams under your feet ; Tread softly because you tread on my dreams . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you very much . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) 