What is going to be the future of learning ? I do have a plan , but in order for me to tell you what that plan is , I need to tell you a little story , which kind of sets the stage . I tried to look at where did the kind of learning we do in schools , where did it come from ? And you can look far back into the past , but if you look at present-day schooling the way it is , it 's quite easy to figure out where it came from . It came from about 300 years ago , and it came from the last and the biggest of the empires on this planet . [ `` The British Empire '' ] Imagine trying to run the show , trying to run the entire planet , without computers , without telephones , with data handwritten on pieces of paper , and traveling by ships . But the Victorians actually did it . What they did was amazing . They created a global computer made up of people . It 's still with us today . It 's called the bureaucratic administrative machine . In order to have that machine running , you need lots and lots of people . They made another machine to produce those people : the school . The schools would produce the people who would then become parts of the bureaucratic administrative machine . They must be identical to each other . They must know three things : They must have good handwriting , because the data is handwritten ; they must be able to read ; and they must be able to do multiplication , division , addition and subtraction in their head . They must be so identical that you could pick one up from New Zealand and ship them to Canada and he would be instantly functional . The Victorians were great engineers . They engineered a system that was so robust that it 's still with us today , continuously producing identical people for a machine that no longer exists . The empire is gone , so what are we doing with that design that produces these identical people , and what are we going to do next if we ever are going to do anything else with it ? [ `` Schools as we know them are obsolete '' ] So that 's a pretty strong comment there . I said schools as we know them now , they 're obsolete . I 'm not saying they 're broken . It 's quite fashionable to say that the education system 's broken . It 's not broken . It 's wonderfully constructed . It 's just that we do n't need it anymore . It 's outdated . What are the kind of jobs that we have today ? Well , the clerks are the computers . They 're there in thousands in every office . And you have people who guide those computers to do their clerical jobs . Those people do n't need to be able to write beautifully by hand . They do n't need to be able to multiply numbers in their heads . They do need to be able to read . In fact , they need to be able to read discerningly . Well , that 's today , but we do n't even know what the jobs of the future are going to look like . We know that people will work from wherever they want , whenever they want , in whatever way they want . How is present-day schooling going to prepare them for that world ? Well , I bumped into this whole thing completely by accident . I used to teach people how to write computer programs in New Delhi , 14 years ago . And right next to where I used to work , there was a slum . And I used to think , how on Earth are those kids ever going to learn to write computer programs ? Or should they not ? At the same time , we also had lots of parents , rich people , who had computers , and who used to tell me , `` You know , my son , I think he 's gifted , because he does wonderful things with computers . And my daughter -- oh , surely she is extra-intelligent . '' And so on . So I suddenly figured that , how come all the rich people are having these extraordinarily gifted children ? ( Laughter ) What did the poor do wrong ? I made a hole in the boundary wall of the slum next to my office , and stuck a computer inside it just to see what would happen if I gave a computer to children who never would have one , did n't know any English , did n't know what the Internet was . The children came running in . And I said , `` Yeah , it 's , I do n't know . They said , `` Why have you put it there ? '' I said , `` Just like that . And they said , `` Can we touch it ? `` I said , `` If you wish to . And I went away . My colleagues said , `` No , it 's a simple solution . So I said , `` Yeah , that 's possible . So I repeated the experiment . When they saw me , they said , `` We want a faster processor and a better mouse . ( Laughter ) So I said , `` How on Earth do you know all this ? '' And they said something very interesting to me . Here 's a short glimpse from those years . So I started publishing . But I was curious to know , what else would they do if they could do this much ? I started experimenting with other subjects , among them , for example , pronunciation . Computer : Nice to meet you.Child : Nice to meet you . Sugata Mitra : The reason I ended with the face of this young lady over there is because I suspect many of you know her . So then people said , well , how far will it go ? Where does it stop ? I decided I would destroy my own argument by creating an absurd proposition . The children came rushing , said , `` What 's all this ? '' So I said , `` It 's very topical , very important . So they said , `` How can we understand such big English words and diagrams and chemistry ? '' So by now , I had developed a new pedagogical method , so I applied that . So I left them for a couple of months . So I said , `` Well , what did I expect ? '' So I said , `` Okay , but how long did it take you before you decided that you ca n't understand anything ? '' So they said , `` We have n't given up . So I said , `` What ? You do n't understand these screens and you keep staring at it for two months ? What for ? '' So a little girl who you see just now , she raised her hand , and she says to me in broken Tamil and English , she said , `` Well , apart from the fact that improper replication of the DNA molecule causes disease , we have n't understood anything else . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So I tested them . So I asked this girl , `` Can you help them ? '' So she says , `` Absolutely not . I said , `` I 'll tell you what . So she says , `` What 's that ? '' I said , `` Stand behind them . So she did that for two more months . Here 's Kallikuppam . ( Children speaking ) Neurons ... communication . I got the camera angle wrong . So what are jobs going to be like ? Well , we know what they 're like today . What will it be tomorrow ? Could it be that we do n't need to go to school at all ? Could it be that , at the point in time when you need to know something , you can find out in two minutes ? Could it be -- a devastating question , a question that was framed for me by Nicholas Negroponte -- could it be that we are heading towards or maybe in a future where knowing is obsolete ? But that 's terrible . Encouragement seems to be the key . There is evidence from neuroscience . I came back to England looking for British grandmothers . Watch this . Grandmother : You ca n't catch me . Children : You ca n't catch me . Grandmother : I 'm the Gingerbread Man.Children : I 'm the Gingerbread Man . Grandmother : Well done ! Very good . SM : So what 's happening here ? I think what we need to look at is we need to look at learning as the product of educational self-organization . But how will we know ? How will we come to know ? Well , I intend to build these Self-Organized Learning Environments . It 's been tried all over the world , and teachers sort of stand back and say , `` It just happens by itself ? '' And I said , `` Yeah , it happens by itself . I said , `` You wo n't believe the children who told me and where they 're from . Here 's a SOLE in action . ( Children talking ) This one is in England . Girl : The total number of electrons is not equal to the total number of protons -- SM : Australia Girl : -- giving it a net positive or negative electrical charge . SM : A decade ahead of her time . So SOLEs , I think we need a curriculum of big questions . So here are a couple of images from SOLEs . So what 's my wish ? My wish is that we design the future of learning . But I want you for another purpose . And just one last thing . And I said to her , `` You know , I want to give a computer to everybody , every child . She suddenly raised her hand like this , and said to me , `` Get on with it . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) I think it was good advice . 