Gabriel García Márquez is one of my favorite writers , for his storytelling , but even more , I think , for the beauty and precision of his prose . And whether it 's the opening line from `` One Hundred Years of Solitude '' or the fantastical stream of consciousness in `` Autumn of the Patriarch , '' where the words rush by , page after page of unpunctuated imagery sweeping the reader along like some wild river twisting through a primal South American jungle , reading Márquez is a visceral experience . Which struck me as particularly remarkable during one session with the novel when I realized that I was being swept along on this remarkable , vivid journey in translation . Now I was a comparative literature major in college , which is like an English major , only instead of being stuck studying Chaucer for three months , we got to read great literature in translation from around the world . And as great as these books were , you could always tell that you were getting close to the full effect . But not so with Márquez who once praised his translator 's versions as being better than his own , which is an astonishing compliment . So when I heard that the translator , Gregory Rabassa , had written his own book on the subject , I could n't wait to read it . It 's called apropos of the Italian adage that I lifted from his forward , `` If This Be Treason . '' And it 's a charming read . It 's highly recommended for anyone who 's interested in the translator 's art . But the reason that I mention it is that early on , Rabassa offers this elegantly simple insight : `` Every act of communication is an act of translation . '' Now maybe that 's been obvious to all of you for a long time , but for me , as often as I 'd encountered that exact difficulty on a daily basis , I had never seen the inherent challenge of communication in so crystalline a light . Ever since I can remember thinking consciously about such things , communication has been my central passion . Even as a child , I remember thinking that what I really wanted most in life was to be able to understand everything and then to communicate it to everyone else . So no ego problems . It 's funny , my wife , Daisy , whose family is littered with schizophrenics -- and I mean littered with them -- once said to me , `` Chris , I already have a brother who thinks he 's God . I do n't need a husband who wants to be . '' ( Laughter ) Anyway , as I plunged through my 20s ever more aware of how unobtainable the first part of my childhood ambition was , it was that second part , being able to successfully communicate to others whatever knowledge I was gaining , where the futility of my quest really set in . Finally , after about 10 years of alienating friends and strangers alike , I finally got it , a new personal truth all my own , that if I was going to ever communicate well with other people the ideas that I was gaining , I 'd better find a different way of going about it . Now comedy travels along a distinct wavelength from other forms of language . Now as to what I mean by the best comedy and satire , I mean work that comes first and foremost from a place of honesty and integrity . On the other side of the political spectrum , the first time that I heard Rush Limbaugh refer to presidential hopeful John Edwards as the Breck girl I knew that he 'd made a direct hit . Now The Daily Show with John Stewart is by far the most -- ( Applause ) ( Laughter ) it 's by far the most well-documented example of the effectiveness of this kind of comedy . ( Applause ) Now whether this says more about the conflict between integrity and profitability of corporate journalism than it does about the attentiveness of Stewart 's viewers , the larger point remains that Stewart 's material is always grounded in a commitment to the facts -- not because his intent is to inform . A great piece of comedy is a verbal magic trick , where you think it 's going over here and then all of a sudden you 're transported over here . Now let me give you an example from my act . ( Laughter ) And that 's followed by these lines about gay adoption : What is the problem with gay adoption ? Why is this remotely controversial ? If you have a baby and you think that baby 's gay , you should be allowed to put it up for adoption . Misdirection is n't the only trick that comedy has up its sleeve . And one last powerful attribute that comedy has as communication is that it 's inherently viral . ( Laughter ) But it 's when you put all of these elements together -- when you get the viral appeal of a great joke with a powerful punchline that 's crafted from honesty and integrity , it can have a real world impact at changing a conversation . So we started talking about climate change . ( Laughter ) But back in 2009 , the question Joel and I kept turning over and over was why this late in the game so much energy was being spent talking about the science when the policies necessary to address climate change were unequivocally beneficial for humanity in the long run regardless of the science . And this cartoon hit the bull 's eye . So my suggestion to those of you out here who are seriously focused on creating a better world is to take a little bit of time each day and practice thinking funny , because you might just find the question that you 've been looking for . Thank you . ( Applause ) 