I 've always written primarily about architecture , about buildings , and writing about architecture is based on certain assumptions . An architect designs a building , and it becomes a place , or many architects design many buildings , and it becomes a city , and regardless of this complicated mix of forces of politics and culture and economics that shapes these places , at the end of the day , you can go and you can visit them . You can walk around them . You can smell them . You can get a feel for them . You can experience their sense of place . But what was striking to me over the last several years was that less and less was I going out into the world , and more and more , I was sitting in front of my computer screen . And especially since about 2007 , when I got an iPhone , I was not only sitting in front of my screen all day , but I was also getting up at the end of the day and looking at this little screen that I carried in my pocket . And what was surprising to me was how quickly my relationship to the physical world had changed . In this very short period of time , you know , whether you call it the last 15 years or so of being online , or the last , you know , four or five years of being online all the time , our relationship to our surroundings had changed in that our attention is constantly divided . You know , we 're both looking inside the screens and we 're looking out in the world around us . And what was even more striking to me , and what I really got hung up on , was that the world inside the screen seemed to have no physical reality of its own . If you went and looked for images of the Internet , this was all that you found , this famous image by Opte of the Internet as the kind of Milky Way , this infinite expanse where we do n't seem to be anywhere on it . We can never seem to grasp it in its totality . It 's always reminded me of the Apollo image of the Earth , the blue marble picture , and it 's similarly meant to suggest , I think , that we ca n't really understand it as a whole . We 're always sort of small in the face of its expanse . So if there was this world and this screen , and if there was the physical world around me , I could n't ever get them together in the same place . And then this happened . My Internet broke one day , as it occasionally does , and the cable guy came to fix it , and he started with the dusty clump of cables behind the couch , and he followed it to the front of my building and into the basement and out to the back yard , and there was this big jumble of cables against the wall . And then he saw a squirrel running along the wire , and he said , `` There 's your problem . A squirrel is chewing on your Internet . '' ( Laughter ) And this seemed astounding . And the answer , by all accounts , was no . And I was embarrassed . But , in fact , it is . If the Internet is a global phenomenon , if we live in a global village , it 's because there are cables underneath the ocean , cables like this . And then they connect to the continent somewhere . So this is my friend Simon Cooper , who until very recently worked for Tata Communications , the communications wing of Tata , the big Indian industrial conglomerate . And I was particularly interested because I wanted to see one of these cables being built . And then once that cable was on shore , they began to prepare to connect it to the other side , for the cable that had been brought down from the landing station . And then the process on shore takes around three or four days , and then , when it 's done , they put the manhole cover back on top , and they push the sand over that , and we all forget about it . And it seems to me that we talk a lot about the cloud , but every time we put something on the cloud , we give up some responsibility for it . 