I love a great mystery , and I 'm fascinated by the greatest unsolved mystery in science , perhaps because it 's personal . It 's about who we are , and I ca n't help but be curious . The mystery is this : What is the relationship between your brain and your conscious experiences , such as your experience of the taste of chocolate or the feeling of velvet ? Now , this mystery is not new . In 1868 , Thomas Huxley wrote , `` How it is that anything so remarkable as a state of consciousness comes about as the result of irritating nervous tissue is just as unaccountable as the appearance of the genie when Aladdin rubbed his lamp . '' Now , Huxley knew that brain activity and conscious experiences are correlated , but he did n't know why . To the science of his day , it was a mystery . In the years since Huxley , science has learned a lot about brain activity , but the relationship between brain activity and conscious experiences is still a mystery . Why ? Why have we made so little progress ? Well , some experts think that we ca n't solve this problem because we lack the necessary concepts and intelligence . We do n't expect monkeys to solve problems in quantum mechanics , and as it happens , we ca n't expect our species to solve this problem either . Well , I disagree . I 'm more optimistic . I think we 've simply made a false assumption . Once we fix it , we just might solve this problem . Today , I 'd like tell you what that assumption is , why it 's false , and how to fix it . Let 's begin with a question : Do we see reality as it is ? I open my eyes and I have an experience that I describe as a red tomato a meter away . As a result , I come to believe that in reality , there 's a red tomato a meter away . I then close my eyes , and my experience changes to a gray field , but is it still the case that in reality , there 's a red tomato a meter away ? I think so , but could I be wrong ? Could I be misinterpreting the nature of my perceptions ? We have misinterpreted our perceptions before . We used to think the Earth is flat , because it looks that way . Pythagorus discovered that we were wrong . Then we thought that the Earth is the unmoving center of the Universe , again because it looks that way . Copernicus and Galileo discovered , again , that we were wrong . Galileo then wondered if we might be misinterpreting our experiences in other ways . He wrote : `` I think that tastes , odors , colors , and so on reside in consciousness . Hence if the living creature were removed , all these qualities would be annihilated . '' Now , that 's a stunning claim . Could Galileo be right ? Could we really be misinterpreting our experiences that badly ? What does modern science have to say about this ? Well , neuroscientists tell us that about a third of the brain 's cortex is engaged in vision . When you simply open your eyes and look about this room , billions of neurons and trillions of synapses are engaged . Now , this is a bit surprising , because to the extent that we think about vision at all , we think of it as like a camera . It just takes a picture of objective reality as it is . Now , there is a part of vision that 's like a camera : the eye has a lens that focuses an image on the back of the eye where there are 130 million photoreceptors , so the eye is like a 130-megapixel camera . But that does n't explain the billions of neurons and trillions of synapses that are engaged in vision . What are these neurons up to ? Well , neuroscientists tell us that they are creating , in real time , all the shapes , objects , colors , and motions that we see . It feels like we 're just taking a snapshot of this room the way it is , but in fact , we 're constructing everything that we see . We do n't construct the whole world at once . We construct what we need in the moment . Now , there are many demonstrations that are quite compelling that we construct what we see . I 'll just show you two . In this example , you see some red discs with bits cut out of them , but if I just rotate the disks a little bit , suddenly , you see a 3D cube pop out of the screen . Now , the screen of course is flat , so the three-dimensional cube that you 're experiencing must be your construction . In this next example , you see glowing blue bars with pretty sharp edges moving across a field of dots . In fact , no dots move . All I 'm doing from frame to frame is changing the colors of dots from blue to black or black to blue . But when I do this quickly , your visual system creates the glowing blue bars with the sharp edges and the motion . There are many more examples , but these are just two that you construct what you see . But neuroscientists go further . They say that we reconstruct reality . So , when I have an experience that I describe as a red tomato , that experience is actually an accurate reconstruction of the properties of a real red tomato that would exist even if I were n't looking . Now , why would neuroscientists say that we do n't just construct , we reconstruct ? Well , the standard argument given is usually an evolutionary one . Those of our ancestors who saw more accurately had a competitive advantage compared to those who saw less accurately , and therefore they were more likely to pass on their genes . We are the offspring of those who saw more accurately , and so we can be confident that , in the normal case , our perceptions are accurate . You see this in the standard textbooks . One textbook says , for example , `` Evolutionarily speaking , vision is useful precisely because it is so accurate . '' So the idea is that accurate perceptions are fitter perceptions . They give you a survival advantage . Now , is this correct ? Is this the right interpretation of evolutionary theory ? Well , let 's first look at a couple of examples in nature . The Australian jewel beetle is dimpled , glossy and brown . The female is flightless . The male flies , looking , of course , for a hot female . When he finds one , he alights and mates . There 's another species in the outback , Homo sapiens . The male of this species has a massive brain that he uses to hunt for cold beer . ( Laughter ) And when he finds one , he drains it , and sometimes throws the bottle into the outback . Now , you might say , beetles , sure , they 're very simple creatures , but surely not mammals . So this raises an important technical question : Does natural selection really favor seeing reality as it is ? Fortunately , we do n't have to wave our hands and guess ; evolution is a mathematically precise theory . A key notion in those equations is fitness . So , in my lab , we have run hundreds of thousands of evolutionary game simulations with lots of different randomly chosen worlds and organisms that compete for resources in those worlds . Well , I hate to break it to you , but perception of reality goes extinct . Now , this is a bit stunning . Still , we need some help with our intuitions . There 's an obvious objection . Another objection : There 's nothing really new here . Finally , you might object , look , we all see the train , therefore none of us constructs the train . We 're inclined to think that perception is like a window on reality as it is . We used to think that the Earth is flat because it looks that way . What does this mean for the mystery of consciousness ? Well , it opens up new possibilities . But here 's the point : Once we let go of our massively intuitive but massively false assumption about the nature of reality , it opens up new ways to think about life 's greatest mystery . The theory of evolution presents us with the ultimate dare : Dare to recognize that perception is not about seeing truth , it 's about having kids . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) Chris Anderson : If that 's really you there , thank you . Donald Hoffman : Well , this does not stop us from a successful science . CA : So you think it 's possible -- ( Laughter ) -- This is cool , but what you 're saying I think is it 's possible that evolution can still get you to reason . DH : Yes . CA : I mean , really what you 're proposing is a kind of modern-day Bishop Berkeley interpretation of the world : consciousness causes matter , not the other way around . DH : Well , it 's slightly different than Berkeley . CA : Don , I could literally talk with you for hours , and I hope to do that . Thanks so much for that . 