So , when I was in art school , I developed a shake in my hand , and this was the straightest line I could draw . Now in hindsight , it was actually good for some things , like mixing a can of paint or shaking a Polaroid , but at the time this was really doomsday . This was the destruction of my dream of becoming an artist . The shake developed out of , really , a single-minded pursuit of pointillism , just years of making tiny , tiny dots . And eventually these dots went from being perfectly round to looking more like tadpoles , because of the shake . So to compensate , I 'd hold the pen tighter , and this progressively made the shake worse , so I 'd hold the pen tighter still . And this became a vicious cycle that ended up causing so much pain and joint issues , I had trouble holding anything . And after spending all my life wanting to do art , I left art school , and then I left art completely . But after a few years , I just could n't stay away from art , and I decided to go to a neurologist about the shake and discovered I had permanent nerve damage . And he actually took one look at my squiggly line , and said , `` Well , why do n't you just embrace the shake ? '' So I did . I went home , I grabbed a pencil , and I just started letting my hand shake and shake . I was making all these scribble pictures . And even though it was n't the kind of art that I was ultimately passionate about , it felt great . And more importantly , once I embraced the shake , I realized I could still make art . I just had to find a different approach to making the art that I wanted . Now , I still enjoyed the fragmentation of pointillism , seeing these little tiny dots come together to make this unified whole . So I began experimenting with other ways to fragment images where the shake would n't affect the work , like dipping my feet in paint and walking on a canvas , or , in a 3D structure consisting of two-by-fours , creating a 2D image by burning it with a blowtorch . I discovered that , if I worked on a larger scale and with bigger materials , my hand really would n't hurt , and after having gone from a single approach to art , I ended up having an approach to creativity that completely changed my artistic horizons . This was the first time I 'd encountered this idea that embracing a limitation could actually drive creativity . At the time , I was finishing up school , and I was so excited to get a real job and finally afford new art supplies . I had this horrible little set of tools , and I felt like I could do so much more with the supplies I thought an artist was supposed to have . I actually did n't even have a regular pair of scissors . I was using these metal shears until I stole a pair from the office that I worked at . So I got out of school , I got a job , I got a paycheck , I got myself to the art store , and I just went nuts buying supplies . And then when I got home , I sat down and I set myself to task to really try to create something just completely outside of the box . But I sat there for hours , and nothing came to mind . The same thing the next day , and then the next , quickly slipping into a creative slump . And I was in a dark place for a long time , unable to create . And it did n't make any sense , because I was finally able to support my art , and yet I was creatively blank . But as I searched around in the darkness , I realized I was actually paralyzed by all of the choices that I never had before . And it was then that I thought back to my jittery hands . Embrace the shake . And I realized , if I ever wanted my creativity back , I had to quit trying so hard to think outside of the box and get back into it . I wondered , could you become more creative , then , by looking for limitations ? What if I could only create with a dollar 's worth of supplies ? At this point , I was spending a lot of my evenings in -- well , I guess I still spend a lot of my evenings in Starbucks — but I know you can ask for an extra cup if you want one , so I decided to ask for 50 . Surprisingly , they just handed them right over , and then with some pencils I already had , I made this project for only 80 cents . It really became a moment of clarification for me that we need to first be limited in order to become limitless . I took this approach of thinking inside the box to my canvas , and wondered what if , instead of painting on a canvas , I could only paint on my chest ? So I painted 30 images , one layer at a time , one on top of another , with each picture representing an influence in my life . Or what if , instead of painting with a brush , I could only paint with karate chops ? ( Laughter ) So I 'd dip my hands in paint , and I just attacked the canvas , and I actually hit so hard that I bruised a joint in my pinkie and it was stuck straight for a couple of weeks . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Or , what if instead of relying on myself , I had to rely on other people to create the content for the art ? So for six days , I lived in front of a webcam . ( Applause ) Or what if instead of making art to display , I had to destroy it ? This seemed like the ultimate limitation , being an artist without art . The last iteration of destruction was to try to produce something that did n't actually exist in the first place . In the course of this Goodbye Art series , I created 23 different pieces with nothing left to physically display . and something really surprising came out of this . When I think back to my three years away from art , away from my dream , just going through the motions , instead of trying to find a different way to continue that dream , I just quit , I gave up . Looking at limitations as a source of creativity changed the course of my life . ( Laughter ) One of my most recent endeavors is to try to translate the habits of creativity that I 've learned into something others can replicate . Limitations may be the most unlikely of places to harness creativity , but perhaps one of the best ways to get ourselves out of ruts , rethink categories and challenge accepted norms . Thank you . ( Applause ) 