How many of you are completely comfortable with calling yourselves a leader ? See , I 've asked that question all the way across the country , and everywhere I ask it , no matter where , there 's always a huge portion of the audience that wo n't put up their hand . And I 've come to realize that we have made leadership into something bigger than us . We 've made into something beyond us . We 've made it about changing the world . And we 've taken this title of leader , and we treat it as if it 's something that one day we 're going to deserve , but to give it to ourselves right now means a level of arrogance or cockiness that we 're not comfortable with . And I worry sometimes that we spend so much time celebrating amazing things that hardly anybody can do that we 've convinced ourselves that those are the only things worth celebrating , and we start to devalue the things that we can do every day , and we start to take moments where we truly are a leader and we do n't let ourselves take credit for it , and we do n't let ourselves feel good about it . And I 've been lucky enough over the last 10 years to work with some amazing people who have helped me redefine leadership in a way that I think has made me happier . And with my short time today , I just want to share with you the one story that is probably most responsible for that redefinition . I went to school in a little school called Mount Allison University in Sackville , New Brunswick , and on my last day there , a girl came up to me and she said , `` I remember the first time that I met you . '' And then she told me a story that had happened four years earlier . She said , `` On the day before I started university , I was in the hotel room with my mom and my dad , and I was so scared and so convinced that I could n't do this , that I was n't ready for university , that I just burst into tears . And my mom and my dad were amazing . They were like , 'Look , we know you 're scared , but let 's just go tomorrow . Let 's go to the first day , and if at any point you feel as if you ca n't do this , that 's fine , just tell us , we will take you home . We love you no matter what . ' '' And she says , `` So I went the next day and I was standing in line getting ready for registration , and I looked around and I just knew I could n't do it . I knew I was n't ready . I knew I had to quit . '' And she says , `` I made that decision , and as soon as I made it , there was this incredible feeling of peace that came over me . And I turned to my mom and my dad to tell them that we needed to go home , and just at that moment , you came out of the Student Union building wearing the stupidest hat I have ever seen in my life . '' ( Laughter ) `` It was awesome . And she walks away , and I 'm flattened . A year and a half after I moved to Toronto , I got an invitation to their wedding . Here 's the kicker . How many of you guys have a lollipop moment , a moment where someone said something or did something that you feel fundamentally made your life better ? All right . But it is so scary to think of ourselves as that powerful . Marianne Williamson said , `` Our greatest fear is not that we are inadequate . 