In half a century of trying to help prevent wars , there 's one question that never leaves me : How do we deal with extreme violence without using force in return ? When you 're faced with brutality , whether it 's a child facing a bully on a playground or domestic violence -- or , on the streets of Syria today , facing tanks and shrapnel , what 's the most effective thing to do ? Fight back ? Give in ? Use more force ? This question : `` How do I deal with a bully without becoming a thug in return ? '' has been with me ever since I was a child . I remember I was about 13 , glued to a grainy black and white television in my parents ' living room as Soviet tanks rolled into Budapest , and kids not much older than me were throwing themselves at the tanks and getting mown down . And I rushed upstairs and started packing my suitcase . And my mother came up and said , `` What on Earth are you doing ? '' And I said , `` I 'm going to Budapest . '' And she said , `` What on Earth for ? '' And I said , `` Kids are getting killed there . There 's something terrible happening . '' And she said , `` Do n't be so silly . '' And I started to cry . And she got it , she said , `` Okay , I see it 's serious . You 're much too young to help . You need training . I 'll help you . But just unpack your suitcase . '' And so I got some training and went and worked in Africa during most of my 20s . But I realized that what I really needed to know I could n't get from training courses . I wanted to understand how violence , how oppression , works . And what I 've discovered since is this : Bullies use violence in three ways . They use political violence to intimidate , physical violence to terrorize and mental or emotional violence to undermine . And only very rarely in very few cases does it work to use more violence . Nelson Mandela went to jail believing in violence , and 27 years later he and his colleagues had slowly and carefully honed the skills , the incredible skills , that they needed to turn one of the most vicious governments the world has known into a democracy . And they did it in a total devotion to non-violence . They realized that using force against force does n't work . So what does work ? Over time I 've collected about a half-dozen methods that do work -- of course there are many more -- that do work and that are effective . And the first is that the change that has to take place has to take place here , inside me . It 's my response , my attitude , to oppression that I 've got control over , and that I can do something about . And what I need to develop is self-knowledge to do that . That means I need to know how I tick , when I collapse , where my formidable points are , where my weaker points are . When do I give in ? What will I stand up for ? And meditation or self-inspection is one of the ways -- again it 's not the only one -- it 's one of the ways of gaining this kind of inner power . And my heroine here -- like Satish 's -- is Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma . She was leading a group of students on a protest in the streets of Rangoon . They came around a corner faced with a row of machine guns . And she realized straight away that the soldiers with their fingers shaking on the triggers were more scared than the student protesters behind her . But she told the students to sit down . And she walked forward with such calm and such clarity and such total lack of fear that she could walk right up to the first gun , put her hand on it and lower it . And no one got killed . So that 's what the mastery of fear can do -- not only faced with machine guns , but if you meet a knife fight in the street . But we have to practice . So what about our fear ? I have a little mantra . My fear grows fat on the energy I feed it . And if it grows very big it probably happens . So we all know the three o'clock in the morning syndrome , when something you 've been worrying about wakes you up -- I see a lot of people -- and for an hour you toss and turn , it gets worse and worse , and by four o'clock you 're pinned to the pillow by a monster this big . The only thing to do is to get up , make a cup of tea and sit down with the fear like a child beside you . You 're the adult . The fear is the child . And you talk to the fear and you ask it what it wants , what it needs . How can this be made better ? How can the child feel stronger ? And you make a plan . And you say , `` Okay , now we 're going back to sleep . Half-past seven , we 're getting up and that 's what we 're going to do . '' I had one of these 3 a.m. episodes on Sunday -- paralyzed with fear at coming to talk to you . ( Laughter ) So I did the thing . ( Applause ) So that 's fear . And I learned this in my work with nuclear weapon policy-makers . So that 's the third one , anger . And Peace Direct spotted quite early on that local people in areas of very hot conflict know what to do . And I think that the U.S. military is finally beginning to get this . So the training of the troops has to change . Now that to me is wisdom in action . So this is what gives me hope -- not just hope , this is what makes me feel very positive right now . Now I do n't just believe in non-violence . And this open-heartedness is exactly what I 've experienced in the entire organization of this gathering since I got here yesterday . ( Applause ) 