The 2011 Arab Spring captured the attention of the world . It also captured the attention of authoritarian governments in other countries , who were worried that revolution would spread . To respond , they ramped up surveillance of activists , journalists and dissidents who they feared would inspire revolution in their own countries . One prominent Bahraini activist , who was arrested and tortured by his government , has said that the interrogators showed him transcripts of his telephone calls and text messages . Of course , it 's no secret that governments are able to intercept telephone calls and text messages . It 's for that reason that many activists specifically avoid using the telephone . Instead , they use tools like Skype , which they think are immune to interception . They 're wrong . There have now been over the last few years an industry of companies who provide surveillance technology to governments , specifically technology that allows those governments to hack into the computers of surveillance targets . Rather than intercepting the communications as they go over the wire , instead they now hack into your computer , enable your webcam , enable your microphone , and steal documents from your computer . When the government of Egypt fell in 2011 , activists raided the office of the secret police , and among the many documents they found was this document by the Gamma Corporation , by Gamma International . Gamma is a German company that manufactures surveillance software and sells it only to governments . It 's important to note that most governments do n't really have the in-house capabilities to develop this software . Smaller ones do n't have the resources or the expertise , and so there 's this market of Western companies who are happy to supply them with the tools and techniques for a price . Gamma is just one of these companies . I should note also that Gamma never actually sold their software to the Egyptian government . They 'd sent them an invoice for a sale , but the Egyptians never bought it . Instead , apparently , the Egyptian government used a free demo version of Gamma 's software . ( Laughter ) So this screenshot is from a sales video that Gamma produced . This is the managing director of Gamma International . Gamma is not the only company in the business . ( Video ) Narrator : You want to look through your target 's eyes . Christopher Soghoian : So , it would be funny if it was n't true , but , in fact , Hacking Team 's software is being sold to governments around the world . So as I said before , governments that do n't really have the resources to build their own tools will buy off-the-shelf surveillance software , and so for that reason , you see that the government of , say , Tunisia , might use the same software as the government of Germany . My friends at an organization called the Electronic Frontier Foundation -- they 're a civil society group — obtained hundreds of documents from the FBI detailing their next generation of surveillance technologies . There 's sort of a big problem with governments going into hacking , and that 's that terrorists , pedophiles , drug dealers , journalists and human rights activists all use the same kinds of computers . So governments around the world have been embracing this technology . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 