I think the beautiful Malin [ Akerman ] put it perfectly . Every man deserves the opportunity to grow a little bit of luxury . Ladies and gentlemen , and more importantly , Mo Bros and Mo Sistas — ( Laughter ) — for the next 17 minutes , I 'm going to share with you my Movember journey , and how , through that journey , we 've redefined charity , we 're redefining the way prostate cancer researchers are working together throughout the world , and I hope , through that process , that I inspire you to create something significant in your life , something significant that will go on and make this world a better place . So the most common question I get asked , and I 'm going to answer it now so I do n't have to do it over drinks tonight , is how did this come about ? How did Movember start ? Well , normally , a charity starts with the cause , and someone that is directly affected by a cause . So in Australia , `` mo '' is slang for mustache , so we renamed the month of November `` Movember '' and created some pretty basic rules , which still stand today . Now trust me , when you 're growing a mustache back in 2003 , and there were 30 of us back then , and this was before the ironic hipster mustache movement — ( Laughter ) — it created a lot of controversy . So we started thinking about that , and we were inspired by the women around us and all they were doing for breast cancer . But there was nothing for this cause , so we married growing a mustache with prostate cancer , and then we created our tagline , which is , `` Changing the face of men 's health . So with that model , I then cold-called the CEO of the Prostate Cancer Foundation . So my lesson that year was persistence . So from that day forward , my life has become about a mustache . So in 2005 , the campaign got more momentum , was more successful in Australia and then New Zealand , and then in 2006 we came to a pivotal point . It 's really interesting when you try and figure a way to fund a fundraising organization built off growing mustaches . Then in early 2007 , a really interesting thing happened . So what we did was , we took some of the money that we raised in Australia to bring the campaign across to this country , the U.S , and the U.K. , and we did that because we knew , if this was successful , we could raise infinitely more money globally than we could just in Australia . So in 2007 , we brought the campaign across here , and it was , it set the stage for the campaign . But what I 'm really pleased to say is , in 2010 , Movember became a truly global movement . And for us , we have redefined charity . So now I live in Los Angeles , because the Prostate Cancer Foundation of the U.S. is based there , and I always get asked by the media down there , because it 's so celebrity-driven , `` Who are your celebrity ambassadors ? '' And I say to them , `` Last year we were fortunate enough to have 450,000 celebrity ambassadors . Now what I want to share with you is one of my most touching Movember moments , and it happened here in Toronto last year , at the end of the campaign . For us now at Movember , we really focus on three program areas , and having a true impact : awareness and education , survivor support programs , and research . So those conversations , getting men engaged in this , at whatever age , is so critically important , and in my view so much more important than the funds we raise . Now to the funds we raise , and research , and how we 're redefining research . So , what I know about my Movember journey is that , with a really creative idea , with passion , with persistence , and a lot of patience , four mates , four mustaches , can inspire a room full of people , and that room full of people can go on and inspire a city , and that city is Melbourne , my home . My name is Adam Garone , and that 's my story . 