The idea of eliminating poverty is a great goal . I do n't think anyone in this room would disagree . What worries me is when politicians with money and charismatic rock stars use the words , it all just sounds so , so simple . Now , I 've got no bucket of money today and I 've got no policy to release , and I certainly have n't got a guitar . I 'll leave that to others . But I do have an idea , and that idea is called Housing for Health . Housing For Health works with poor people . It works in the places where they live , and the work is done to improve their health . Over the last 28 years , this tough , grinding , dirty work has been done by literally thousands of people around Australia , and more recently overseas , and their work has proven that focused design can improve even the poorest living environments . It can improve health , and it can play a part in reducing , if not eliminating , poverty . I 'm going to start where the story began , 1985 , in central Australia . A man called Yami Lester , an Aboriginal man , was running a health service . Eighty percent of what walked in the door , in terms of illness , was infectious disease -- third world , developing world infectious disease , caused by a poor living environment . Yami assembled a team in Alice Springs . He got a medical doctor . He got an environmental health guy . And he hand-selected a team of local Aboriginal people to work on this project . Yami told us at that first meeting , there 's no money . Always a good start , no money . You have six months . And I want you to start on a project which in his language he called `` uwankara palyanku kanyintjaku , '' which , translated , is `` a plan to stop people getting sick , '' a profound brief . That was our task . First step , the medical doctor went away for about six months , and he worked on what were to become these nine health goals , what were we aiming at . After six months of work , he came to my office and presented me with those nine words on a piece of paper . [ Washing , clothes , wastewater , nutrition ... ] Now , I was very , very unimpressed . Come on . Big ideas need big words and preferably a lot of them . This did n't fit the bill . What I did n't see and what you ca n't see is that he 'd assembled thousands of pages of local , national and international health research that filled out the picture as to why these were the health targets . The pictures that came a bit later had a very simple reason . The Aboriginal people who were our bosses and the senior people were most commonly illiterate , so the story had to be told in pictures of what were these goals . We work with the community , not telling them what was going to happen in a language they did n't understand . So we had the goals , and each one of these goals -- and I wo n't go through them all — puts at the center the person and their health issue , and it then connects them to the bits of the physical environment that are actually needed to keep their health good . And the highest priority , you see on the screen , is washing people once a day , particularly children . Now I hope most of you are thinking , `` What ? That sounds simple . '' Now , I 'm going to ask you all a very personal question . This morning before you came , who could have had a wash using a shower ? I 'm not going to ask if you had a shower , because I 'm too polite . That 's it . ( Laughter ) Okay . I 'm going to ask you to do some more work . Okay . If you get a green tick , your shower 's working . We 're really concerned with kids naught to five . Those ticks and crosses represent the 7,800 houses we 've looked at nationally around Australia , the same proportion . Housing for Health projects are n't about measuring failure . And these are the results we can get with our 7,500 dollars . Thank you . The teams do a great job , and that 's their work . I think there 's an obvious question that I hope you 're thinking about . And if you 've lived in Australia in the last 30 years , the final cause -- You will have heard always that indigenous people trash houses . ( Applause ) In 2010 , for example , there were 831 , all over Australia , and the Torres Strait Islands , all states , working to improve the houses where they and their families live , and that 's an important thing . Our work 's always had a focus on health . Okay , what do we do ? Well , first thing we do , we get showers working . Second , the eye doctors tell us that dust scours the eye and lets the bug in quick . Then we wanted to get rid of the bug generally . All these small health gains and small pieces of the puzzle make a big difference . ( Applause ) Just to show that the principles we 've used in Australia can be used in other places , I 'm just going to go to one other place , and that 's Nepal , and what a beautiful place to go . So all of a sudden we had two problems . ( Applause ) I put it to you , is this eliminating poverty ? And the answer from the Nepali team who is working at the minute would say , do n't be ridiculous , we have three million more toilets to build before we can even make a stab at that claim . But as we all sit here today , there are now over 100 toilets built in this village and a couple nearby . ( Applause ) People are not the problem . Nelson Mandela said , in the mid-2000s , not too far from here , he said that like slavery and Apartheid , `` Poverty is not natural . Thank you very much for your time . ( Applause ) 