Two years ago , I have to say there was no problem . Two years ago , I knew exactly what an icon looked like . It looks like this . Everybody 's icon , but also the default position of a curator of Italian Renaissance paintings , which I was then . And in a way , this is also another default selection . Leonardo da Vinci 's exquisitely soulful image of the `` Lady with an Ermine . '' And I use that word , soulful , deliberately . Or then there 's this , or rather these : the two versions of Leonardo 's `` Virgin of the Rocks '' that were about to come together in London for the very first time . In the exhibition that I was then in the absolute throes of organizing . I was literally up to my eyes in Leonardo , and I had been for three years . So , he was occupying every part of my brain . Leonardo had taught me , during that three years , about what a picture can do . About taking you from your own material world into a spiritual world . He said , actually , that he believed the job of the painter was to paint everything that was visible and invisible in the universe . That 's a huge task . And yet , somehow he achieves it . He shows us , I think , the human soul . He shows us the capacity of ourselves to move into a spiritual realm . To see a vision of the universe that 's more perfect than our own . To see God 's own plan , in some sense . So this , in a sense , was really what I believed an icon was . At about that time , I started talking to Tom Campbell , director here of the Metropolitan Museum , about what my next move might be . The move , in fact , back to an earlier life , one I 'd begun at the British Museum , back to the world of three dimensions -- of sculpture and of decorative arts -- to take over the department of European sculpture and decorative arts , here at the Met . But it was an incredibly busy time . All the conversations were done at very peculiar times of the day -- over the phone . In the end , I accepted the job without actually having been here . Again , I 'd been there a couple of years before , but on that particular visit . So , it was just before the time that the Leonardo show was due to open when I finally made it back to the Met , to New York , to see my new domain . To see what European sculpture and decorative arts looked like , beyond those Renaissance collections with which I was so already familiar . And I thought , on that very first day , I better tour the galleries . Fifty-seven of these galleries -- like 57 varieties of baked beans , I believe . I walked through and I started in my comfort zone in the Italian Renaissance . And then I moved gradually around , feeling a little lost sometimes . My head , also still full of the Leonardo exhibition that was about to open , and I came across this . And I thought to myself : What the hell have I done ? There was absolutely no connection in my mind at all and , in fact , if there was any emotion going on , it was a kind of repulsion . This object felt utterly and completely alien . Silly at a level that I had n't yet understood silliness to be . And then it was made worse -- there were two of them . ( Laughter ) So , I started thinking about why it was , in fact , that I disliked this object so much . But something more profound was happening as well . So , there I was -- in a sort of paroxysm of horror . And at that point , actually , a firework went off in my brain . It 's not an escapism that we feel particularly happy with today , however . 