Virtual reality started for me in sort of an unusual place . It was the 1970s . I got into the field very young : I was seven years old . And the tool that I used to access virtual reality was the Evel Knievel stunt cycle . This is a commercial for that particular item : ( Video ) Voice-over : What a jump ! Evel 's riding the amazing stunt cycle . That gyro-power sends him over 100 feet at top speed . Chris Milk : So this was my joy back then . I rode this motorcycle everywhere . And I was there with Evel Knievel ; we jumped the Snake River Canyon together . I wanted the rocket . I never got the rocket , I only got the motorcycle . I felt so connected to this world . I did n't want to be a storyteller when I grew up , I wanted to be stuntman . I was there . Evel Knievel was my friend . I had so much empathy for him . But it did n't work out . ( Laughter ) I went to art school . So , now I 'm a filmmaker , or , the beginning of a filmmaker , and I started using the tools that are available to me as a filmmaker to try to tell the most compelling stories that I can to an audience . Unfortunately , Evel Knievel did not feel the same empathy for us that we felt for him , and he sued us for this video -- ( Laughter ) -- shortly thereafter . Let 's talk about film now . So this is called `` The Wilderness Downtown . But then I started thinking , okay , well that 's a part of you , but how do I put all of you inside of the frame ? So to do that , I started making art installations . But then I started thinking about frames , and what do they represent ? And a frame is just a window . So that leads me back to virtual reality . So , I 'm going to show you a demo of a virtual reality film : a full-screen version of all the information that we capture when we shoot virtual reality . ( Video ) Sidra : My name is Sidra . CM : So , when you 're inside of the headset . And I think that we can change minds with this machine . So we 're going to make more of them . And that 's where I think we just start to scratch the surface of the true power of virtual reality . So , it 's a machine , but through this machine we become more compassionate , we become more empathetic , and we become more connected . Thank you . ( Applause ) 