What I 'd like to do is talk to you a little bit about fear and the cost of fear and the age of fear from which we are now emerging . I would like you to feel comfortable with my doing that by letting you know that I know something about fear and anxiety . I 'm a Jewish guy from New Jersey . ( Laughter ) I could worry before I could walk . ( Laughter ) Please , applaud that . ( Applause ) Thank you . But I also grew up in a time where there was something to fear . And yet , despite the fact that we lived for 50 years with the threat of such a war , the response of our government and of our society was to do wonderful things . On September 11 , 2001 , 19 guys took over four airplanes and flew them into a couple of buildings . But we rearranged our entire national security apparatus in the most sweeping way since the end of the Second World War . Now you have to ask , where did we go wrong ? What did we do ? What was the mistake that was made ? And you might say , well look , Washington is a dysfunctional place . But there are other problems . On 9/11 , we had a crisis because we were looking the wrong way . And so what are those trends ? Well , to a group like you , the trends are apparent . On the security side , we 've come out of a Cold War in which it was too costly to fight a nuclear war , and so we did n't , to a period that I call Cool War , cyber war , where the costs of conflict are actually so low , that we may never stop . Special forces operators out there in the field today discover that small groups of insurgents with cell phones have access to satellite imagery that once only superpowers had . But it does n't just affect the security side . We are seeing these changes everywhere we look . And yet , in Washington , we are debating whether to call the terrorist group that has taken over Syria and Iraq ISIS or ISIL or Islamic State . And that gets us to another breakdown that 's crucial , and another breakdown that could n't be more important to a group like this , because the growth of America and real American national security and all of the things that drove progress even during the Cold War , was a public-private partnership between science , technology and government that began when Thomas Jefferson sat alone in his laboratory inventing new things . ( Applause ) But we have a government that does n't want to listen , that does n't have people at the highest levels that understand this . But the world 's coming apart . And that brings me to the reason that I 'm here . ( Laughter ) The dialogue is n't happening there . We are not there yet , but discussions like this and groups like you are the places where those questions can be formulated and posed . Thank you very , very much . ( Applause ) 