Well , you know , sometimes the most important things come in the smallest packages . I am going to try to convince you , in the 15 minutes I have , that microbes have a lot to say about questions such as , `` Are we alone ? '' and they can tell us more about not only life in our solar system but also maybe beyond , and this is why I am tracking them down in the most impossible places on Earth , in extreme environments where conditions are really pushing them to the brink of survival . Actually , sometimes me too , when I 'm trying to follow them too close . But here 's the thing : We are the only advanced civilization in the solar system , but that does n't mean that there is no microbial life nearby . In fact , the planets and moons you see here could host life -- all of them -- and we know that , and it 's a strong possibility . And if we were going to find life on those moons and planets , then we would answer questions such as , are we alone in the solar system ? Where are we coming from ? Do we have family in the neighborhood ? Is there life beyond our solar system ? And we can ask all those questions because there has been a revolution in our understanding of what a habitable planet is , and today , a habitable planet is a planet that has a zone where water can stay stable , but to me this is a horizontal definition of habitability , because it involves a distance to a star , but there is another dimension to habitability , and this is a vertical dimension . Think of it as conditions in the subsurface of a planet where you are very far away from a sun , but you still have water , energy , nutrients , which for some of them means food , and a protection . And when you look at the Earth , very far away from any sunlight , deep in the ocean , you have life thriving and it uses only chemistry for life processes . So when you think of it at that point , all walls collapse . You have no limitations , basically . And if you have been looking at the headlines lately , then you will see that we have discovered a subsurface ocean on Europa , on Ganymede , on Enceladus , on Titan , and now we are finding a geyser and hot springs on Enceladus , Our solar system is turning into a giant spa . For anybody who has gone to a spa knows how much microbes like that , right ? ( Laughter ) So at that point , think also about Mars . So , we have been making progress in our understanding of habitability , but we also have been making progress in our understanding of what the signatures of life are on Earth . But as much as our understanding grows of all of these things , there is one question we still can not answer , and this is , where are we coming from ? And you know , it 's getting worse , because we wo n't be able to find the physical evidence of where we are coming from on this planet , and the reason being is that anything that is older than four billion years is gone . So is everything lost ? Well , maybe not . How is this possible ? Well clearly at the beginning of the solar system , Mars and the Earth were bombarded by giant asteroids and comets , and there were ejecta from these impacts all over the place . But for that to happen , Mars needed to be habitable at the time when conditions were right . So this is extremely good news , but does that mean that if we go there , life will be easy to find on Mars ? Not necessarily . Here 's what happened : At the time when life exploded at the surface of the Earth , then everything went south for Mars , literally . So to do that , it 's easy . Easy , right ? Well , actually , it is . And now , what you see here , we are at 4,500 meters in the Andes , but in fact we are less than a billion years after the Earth and Mars formed . But if we want to understand what 's going on , we need to go a little further . So I was not promising anything about a leisurely trip on the time machine . Here 's another lake , right next to the first one . So by now , I think I have convinced you that Mars is very special to us , but it would be a mistake to think that Mars is the only place in the solar system that is interesting to find potential microbial life . Now , finally , if somebody tells you that looking for alien microbes is not cool because you can not have a philosophical conversation with them , let me show you why and how you can tell them they 're wrong . Look at the solar system , and look at the Earth . Thank you . ( Applause ) 