While preparing for my talk I was reflecting on my life and trying to figure out where exactly was that moment when my journey began . A long time passed by , and I simply could n't figure out the beginning or the middle or the end of my story . I always used to think that my beginning was one afternoon in my community when my mother had told me that I had escaped three arranged marriages by the time I was two . Or one evening when electricity had failed for eight hours in our community , and my dad sat , surrounded by all of us , telling us stories of when he was a little kid struggling to go to school while his father , who was a farmer , wanted him to work in the fields with him . Or that dark night when I was 16 when three little kids had come to me and they whispered in my ear that my friend was murdered in something called the honor killings . But then I realized that , as much as I know that these moments have contributed on my journey , they have influenced my journey but they have not been the beginning of it , but the true beginning of my journey was in front of a mud house in upper Sindh of Pakistan , where my father held the hand of my 14-year-old mother and they decided to walk out of the village to go to a town where they could send their kids to school . In a way , I feel like my life is kind of a result of some wise choices and decisions they 've made . And just like that , another of their decisions was to keep me and my siblings connected to our roots . While we were living in a community I fondly remember as called Ribabad , which means community of the poor , my dad made sure that we also had a house in our rural homeland . I come from an indigenous tribe in the mountains of Balochistan called Brahui . Brahui , or Brohi , means mountain dweller , and it is also my language . Thanks to my father 's very strict rules about connecting to our customs , I had to live a beautiful life of songs , cultures , traditions , stories , mountains , and a lot of sheep . But then , living in two extremes between the traditions of my culture , of my village , and then modern education in my school was n't easy . I was aware that I was the only girl who got to have such freedom , and I was guilty of it . While going to school in Karachi and Hyderabad , a lot of my cousins and childhood friends were getting married off , some to older men , some in exchange , some even as second wives . I got to see the beautiful tradition and its magic fade in front of me when I saw that the birth of a girl child was celebrated with sadness , when women were told to have patience as their main virtue . Up until I was 16 , I healed my sadness by crying , mostly at nights when everyone would sleep and I would sob in my pillow , until that one night when I found out my friend was killed in the name of honor . Honor killings is a custom where men and women are suspected of having relationships before or outside of the marriage , and they 're killed by their family for it . Usually the killer is the brother or father or the uncle in the family . The U.N. reports there are about 1,000 honor murders every year in Pakistan , and these are only the reported cases . A custom that kills did not make any sense to me , and I knew I had to do something about it this time . I was not going to cry myself to sleep . I was going to do something , anything , to stop it . I was 16 -- I started writing poetry and going door to door telling everybody about honor killings and why it happens , why it should be stopped , and raising awareness about it until I actually found a much , much better way to handle this issue . In those days , we were living in a very small , one-roomed house in Karachi . Every year , during the monsoon seasons , our house would flood up with water -- rainwater and sewage -- and my mom and dad would be taking the water out . In those days , my dad brought home a huge machine , a computer . It was so big it looked as if it was going to take up half of the only room we had , and had so many pieces and wires that needed to be connected . But it was still the most exciting thing that has ever happened to me and my sisters . My oldest brother Ali got to be in charge of taking care of the computer , and all of us were given 10 to 15 minutes every day to use it . Being the oldest of eight kids , I got to use it the last , and that was after I had washed the dishes , cleaned the house , made dinner with my mom , and put blankets on the floor for everyone to sleep , and after that , I would run to the computer , connect it to the Internet , and have pure joy and wonder for 10 to 15 minutes . In those days , I had discovered a website called Joogle . [ Google ] ( Laughter ) In my frantic wish to do something about this custom , I made use of Google and discovered Facebook , a website where people can connect to anyone around the world , and so , from my very tiny , cement-roofed room in Karachi , I connected with people in the U.K. , the U.S. , Australia and Canada , and created a campaign called WAKE UP Campaign against Honor Killings . My community stood up against us , saying we were spreading un-Islamic behavior . Back in Karachi , as an 18-year-old , I thought this was the biggest failure of my entire life . There were two big reasons why our campaign had failed big time . So then we found out something which was very amazing for us . So this time , we were like , we are going to do something different . Nobody believed us . And so it began . So this was the model which actually came out -- very amazing . We soon called this project Sughar . But then while we were thinking everything was going well , once again everything was fantastic , we found our next setback : A lot of men started seeing the visible changes in their wife . So we decided to launch our first ever tribal women 's very own fashion brand , which is now called Nomads . ( Applause ) Thank you , thank you . In 2013 , we launched our first Sughar Hub instead of a center . But that 's actually not what I want . Thank you so much . ( Applause ) Thank you . Chris Anderson : Khalida , you are quite the force of nature . Khalida Brohi : I think my job is to give the inspiration out , give my dream out . CA : I love that when you talked about your team in the talk , I mean , you were all 18 at the time . KB : Do people here believe that I 'm at an age where I 'm supposed to be a grandmother in my village ? My mom was married at nine , and I am the oldest woman not married and not doing anything in my life in my village . CA : Wait , wait , wait , not doing anything ? KB : No . KB : People feel sorry for me , a lot of times . CA : But how much time are you spending now actually back in Balochistan ? KB : I live over there . CA : But what you 're doing is definitely threatening to some people there . KB : This question has come to me a lot of times before , and I feel like the word `` fear '' just comes to me and then drops , but there is one fear that I have that is different from that . CA : Is he here ? You 've got to stand up . KB : Escaping arranged marriages , I chose my own husband across the world in L.A. , a really different world . CA : So people who want to help you on their way , they can go on , they can maybe buy some of these clothes that you 're bringing over that are actually made , the embroidery is done back in Balochistan ? KB : Yeah . CA : Or they can get involved in the foundation . KB : Definitely . CA : Well , it 's been incredible to have you here . KB : Thank you so much . 