On Mondays and Thursdays , I learn how to die . I call them my terminal days . My wife Fernanda does n't like the term , but a lot of people in my family died of melanoma cancer and my parents and grandparents had it . And I kept thinking , one day I could be sitting in front of a doctor who looks at my exams and says , `` Ricardo , things do n't look very good . You have six months or a year to live . '' And you start thinking about what you would do with this time . And you say , `` I 'm going to spend more time with the kids . I 'm going to visit these places , I 'm going to go up and down mountains and places and I 'm going to do all the things I did n't do when I had the time . '' But of course , we all know these are very bittersweet memories we 're going to have . It 's very difficult to do . You spend a good part of the time crying , probably . So I said , I 'm going to do something else . Every Monday and Thursday , I 'm going use my terminal days . And I will do , during those days , whatever it is I was going to do if I had received that piece of news . ( Laughter ) When you think about -- ( Applause ) when you think about the opposite of work , we , many times , think it 's leisure . So we started thinking about that as a company for the last 30 years . We looked at it and we said , let 's devolve to these people , let 's give these people a company where we take away all the boarding school aspects of , this is when you arrive , this is how you dress , this is how you go to meetings , this is what you say , this is what you do n't say , and let 's see what 's left . And what we found -- we thought , these are the older people who are going to be really interested in this program . So we started asking questions one by one . Slowly we went to a process where we 'd say things like , we do n't want anyone to be a leader in the company if they have n't been interviewed and approved by their future subordinates . We said things like , why ca n't people set their own salaries ? What do they need to know ? There 's only three things you need to know : how much people make inside the company , how much people make somewhere else in a similar business and how much we make in general to see whether we can afford it . As this information started coming to people , we said things like , we do n't want to see your expense report , we do n't want to know how many holidays you 're taking , we do n't want to know where you work . And so , the question we were asking was , how can we be taking care of people ? People are the only thing we have . So the process is looking for wisdom . This process , as we started looking at the people who came to us , we 'd say , now wait a second , people come to us and they say , where am I supposed to sit ? How am I supposed to work ? Where am I going to be in 5 years ' time ? And we looked at that and we said , we have to start much earlier . So we set up a foundation , which now has , for 11 years , three schools , where we started asking the same questions , how do you redesign school for wisdom ? It is one thing to say , we need to recycle the teachers , we need the directors to do more . And so we created this school , which is called Lumiar , and Lumiar , one of them is a public school , and Lumiar says the following : Let 's divide this role of the teacher into two . And then we have things that everyone has forgotten , which are probably the most important things in life . And then , in this same vein , we keep a digital mosaic , because this is not constructivist or Montessori or something . And that brings us back to this graph and this distribution of our life . I taught MBAs at MIT for a time and I ended up , one day , at the Mount Auburn Cemetery . And the second thing is , I freed myself from this anchor of past achievement or whatever . And with this rationale , I look at these days and I think , I 'm not retired . And I think what this leaves us as a message for all of you , I think is a little bit like this : We 've all learned how to go on Sunday night to email and work from home . Chris Anderson : So Ricardo , you 're kind of crazy . Ricardo Semler : It happens . CA : So that 's the key thing ? From your point of view the evidence is there , in the business point of view this works , but people just do n't have the courage to -- ( Whoosh ) RS : They do n't even have the incentive . CA : What you 're trying to do in education seems to me incredibly profound . RS : I think it 's that problem of ideas whose time has come . CA : So you have asked extraordinary questions your whole life . RS : I always come back to variations of the question that my son asked me when he was three . CA : So that strikes me as a profound and quite beautiful way to end this penultimate day of TED . ( Applause ) 