I 'm assuming everyone here has watched a TED Talk online at one time or another , right ? So what I 'm going to do is play this . This is the song from the TED Talks online . ( Music ) And I 'm going to slow it down because things sound cooler when they 're slower . ( Music ) Ken Robinson : Good morning . How are you ? Mark Applebaum : I 'm going to -- Kate Stone : -- mix some music . MA : I 'm going to do so in a way that tells a story . Tod Machover : Something nobody 's ever heard before . KS : I have a crossfader . Julian Treasure : I call this the mixer . KS : Two D.J . decks . Chris Anderson : You turn up the dials , the wheel starts to turn . Dan Ellsey : I have always loved music . Michael Tilson Thomas : Is it a melody or a rhythm or a mood or an attitude ? Daniel Wolpert : Feeling everything that 's going on inside my body . Adam Ockelford : In your brain is this amazing musical computer . MTT : Using computers and synthesizers to create works . It 's a language that 's still evolving . And the 21st century . KR : Turn on the radio . Pop into the discotheque . You will know what this person is doing : moving to the music . Mark Ronson : This is my favorite part . MA : You got ta have doorstops . That 's important . TM : We all love music a great deal . MTT : Anthems , dance crazes , ballads and marches . Kirby Ferguson and JT : The remix : It is new music created from old music . Ryan Holladay : Blend seamlessly . Kathryn Schulz : And that 's how it goes . MTT : What happens when the music stops ? KS : Yay ! ( Applause ) MR : Obviously , I 've been watching a lot of TED Talks . When I was first asked to speak at TED , I was n't quite sure what my angle was , at first , so yeah , I immediately started watching tons of TED Talks , which is pretty much absolutely the worst thing that you can do because you start to go into panic mode , thinking , I have n't mounted a successful expedition to the North Pole yet . Neither have I provided electricity to my village through sheer ingenuity . In fact , I 've pretty much wasted most of my life DJing in night clubs and producing pop records . But I still kept watching the videos , because I 'm a masochist , and eventually , things like Michael Tilson Thomas and Tod Machover , and seeing their visceral passion talking about music , it definitely stirred something in me , and I 'm a sucker for anyone talking devotedly about the power of music . And I started to write down on these little note cards every time I heard something that struck a chord in me , pardon the pun , or something that I thought I could use , and pretty soon , my studio looked like this , kind of like a John Nash , `` Beautiful Mind '' vibe . The other good thing about watching TED Talks , when you see a really good one , you kind of all of a sudden wish the speaker was your best friend , do n't you ? Like , just for a day . They seem like a nice person . You 'd take a bike ride , maybe share an ice cream . You 'd certainly learn a lot . And every now and then they 'd chide you , when they got frustrated that you could n't really keep up with half of the technical things they 're banging on about all the time . But then they 'd remember that you 're but a mere human of ordinary , mortal intelligence that did n't finish university , and they 'd kind of forgive you , and pet you like the dog . ( Laughter ) Man , yeah , back to the real world , probably Sir Ken Robinson and I are not going to end up being best of friends . In a nutshell , that 's what I was trying to do with these things , but more importantly , that 's what the past 30 years of music has been . I 'd like to play a song for you . ( Music : `` La Di Da Di '' by Doug E. Fresh & amp ; Slick Rick ) That 's `` La Di Da Di '' and it 's the fifth-most sampled song of all time . Anyway , this predated the sampling era . Doug E. Fresh was the human beat box . That was 1984 . Over the next 10 years , `` La Di Da Di '' continues to be sampled by countless records , ending up on massive hits like `` Here Comes the Hotstepper '' and `` I Wan na Sex You Up . ( Music : `` Hypnotize '' by The Notorious B.I.G . So Biggie was killed weeks before that song made it to number one , in one of the great tragedies of the hip-hop era , but he would have been 13 years old and very much alive when `` La Di Da Di '' first came out , and as a young boy growing up in Brooklyn , it 's hard not to think that that song probably held some fond memories for him . Elsewhere in the pop and rap world , we 're going a little bit sample-crazy . You have to take an element of those things and then bring something fresh and new to it , which was something that I learned when I was working with the late , amazing Amy Winehouse on her album `` Back to Black . So if we come all the way up to the present day now , the cultural tour de force that is Miley Cyrus , she reinterprets `` La Di Da Di '' completely for her generation , and we 'll take a listen to the Slick Rick part and then see how she sort of flipped it . Since the dawn of the sampling era , there 's been endless debate about the validity of music that contains samples . So I would like to do one more piece that I put together for you tonight , and it takes place with two pretty inspiring TED performances that I 've seen . Let 's hear that TED sound again , right ? ( Music ) Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 