I was on a long road trip this summer , and I was having a wonderful time listening to the amazing Isabel Wilkerson 's `` The Warmth of Other Suns . '' It documents six million black folks fleeing the South from 1915 to 1970 looking for a respite from all the brutality and trying to get to a better opportunity up North , and it was filled with stories of the resilience and the brilliance of African-Americans , and it was also really hard to hear all the stories of the horrors and the humility , and all the humiliations . It was especially hard to hear about the beatings and the burnings and the lynchings of black men . And I said , `` You know , this is a little deep . I need a break . I 'm going to turn on the radio . '' I turned it on , and there it was : Ferguson , Missouri , Michael Brown , 18-year-old black man , unarmed , shot by a white police officer , laid on the ground dead , blood running for four hours while his grandmother and little children and his neighbors watched in horror , and I thought , here it is again . This violence , this brutality against black men has been going on for centuries . I mean , it 's the same story . It 's just different names . It could have been Amadou Diallo . It could have been Sean Bell . It could have been Oscar Grant . It could have been Trayvon Martin . This violence , this brutality , is really something that 's part of our national psyche . It 's part of our collective history . What are we going to do about it ? You know that part of us that still crosses the street , locks the doors , clutches the purses , when we see young black men ? That part . I mean , I know we 're not shooting people down in the street , but I 'm saying that the same stereotypes and prejudices that fuel those kinds of tragic incidents are in us . We 've been schooled in them as well . I believe that we can stop these types of incidents , these Fergusons from happening , by looking within and being willing to change ourselves . So I have a call to action for you . There are three things that I want to offer us today to think about as ways to stop Ferguson from happening again ; three things that I think will help us reform our images of young black men ; three things that I 'm hoping will not only protect them but will open the world so that they can thrive . Can you imagine that ? Can you imagine our country embracing young black men , seeing them as part of our future , giving them that kind of openness , that kind of grace we give to people we love ? How much better would our lives be ? How much better would our country be ? Let me just start with number one . We got ta get out of denial . Stop trying to be good people . We need real people . You know , I do a lot of diversity work , and people will come up to me at the beginning of the workshop . They 're like , `` Oh , Ms. Diversity Lady , we 're so glad you 're here '' -- ( Laughter ) -- `` but we do n't have a biased bone in our body . I mean , not too long ago , I was on a plane and I heard the voice of a woman pilot coming over the P.A . I 'm going to tell you what we have learned . What do we do about the fact that our brain automatically associates ? You know , one of the things that you probably are thinking about , and you 're probably like , you know what , I 'm just going to double down on my color blindness . So in fact , what the scientists are telling us is , no way . So here 's the thing . Okay , so that 's number one : number two , what I 'm going to say is move toward young black men instead of away from them . You know , biases are the stories we make up about people before we know who they actually are . I know because I have some white friends in particular that will say , `` You have no idea how awkward I am . So this last thing is going to be harder , and I know it , but I 'm just going to put it out there anyway . So many amazing black men , those who are the most amazing statesmen that have ever lived , brave soldiers , awesome , hardworking laborers . Thank you . ( Applause ) 