I would like to show you how architecture has helped to change the life of my community and has opened opportunities to hope . I am a native of Burkina Faso . According to the World Bank , Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world , but what does it look like to grow up in a place like that ? I am an example of that . I was born in a little village called Gando . In Gando , there was no electricity , no access to clean drinking water , and no school . But my father wanted me to learn how to read and write . For this reason , I had to leave my family when I was seven and to stay in a city far away from my village with no contact with my family . In this place I sat in a class like that with more than 150 other kids , and for six years . In this time , it just happened to me to come to school to realize that my classmate died . Today , not so much has changed . There is still no electricity in my village . People still are dying in Burkina Faso , and access to clean drinking water is still a big problem . I had luck . I was lucky , because this is a fact of life when you grow up in a place like that . But I was lucky . I had a scholarship . I could go to Germany to study . So now , I suppose , I do n't need to explain to you how great a privilege it is for me to be standing before you today . From Gando , my home village in Burkina Faso , to Berlin in Germany to become an architect is a big , big step . But what to do with this privilege ? Since I was a student , I wanted to open up better opportunities to other kids in Gando . I just wanted to use my skills and build a school . But how do you do it when you 're still a student and you do n't have money ? Oh yes , I started to make drawings and asked for money . Fundraising was not an easy task . I even asked my classmates to spend less money on coffee and cigarettes , but to sponsor my school project . In real wonder , two years later , I was able to collect 50,000 U.S. dollars . When I came home to Gando to bring the good news , my people were over the moon , but when they realized that I was planning to use clay , they were shocked . `` A clay building is not able to stand a rainy season , and Francis wants us to use it and build a school . Is this the reason why he spent so much time in Europe studying instead of working in the field with us ? '' My people build all the time with clay , but they do n't see any innovation with mud . So I had to convince everybody . I started to speak with the community , and I could convince everybody , and we could start to work . And the women , the men , everybody from the village , was part of this building process . I was allowed to use even traditional techniques . So clay floor for example , the young men come and stand like that , beating , hours for hours , and then their mothers came , and they are beating in this position , for hours , giving water and beating . And then the polishers come . They start polishing it with a stone for hours . And then you have this result , very fine , like a baby bottom . ( Laughter ) It 's not photoshopped . In this school , there was a simple idea : to create comfort in a classroom . And for me and my community , this project was a huge success . The first one is the school extension , of course . The next project is the library in Gando . My most recent project in Gando is a high school project . Another factor in Gando is rain . The Gando project was always connected to training the people , because I just wanted , one day when I fall down and die , that at least one person from Gando keeps doing this work . And my people now can use their skills to earn money themselves . Yes , you know it . When I was a kid , I was going to school , I was coming back every holiday to Gando . Merci beaucoup . 