The two most likely largest inventions of our generation are the Internet and the mobile phone . They 've changed the world . However , largely to our surprise , they also turned out to be the perfect tools for the surveillance state . It turned out that the capability to collect data , information and connections about basically any of us and all of us is exactly what we 've been hearing throughout of the summer through revelations and leaks about Western intelligence agencies , mostly U.S. intelligence agencies , watching over the rest of the world . We 've heard about these starting with the revelations from June 6 . Edward Snowden started leaking information , top secret classified information , from the U.S. intelligence agencies , and we started learning about things like PRISM and XKeyscore and others . And these are examples of the kinds of programs U.S. intelligence agencies are running right now , against the whole rest of the world . And if you look back about the forecasts on surveillance by George Orwell , well it turns out that George Orwell was an optimist . ( Laughter ) We are right now seeing a much larger scale of tracking of individual citizens than he could have ever imagined . And this here is the infamous NSA data center in Utah . Well , not exactly everyone , because the U.S. intelligence only has a legal right to monitor foreigners . ( Laughter ) Right ? So it is wholesale blanket surveillance of all of us , all of us who use telecommunications and the Internet . But do n't get me wrong : There are actually types of surveillance that are okay . So the four main arguments supporting surveillance like this , well , the first of all is that whenever you start discussing about these revelations , there will be naysayers trying to minimize the importance of these revelations , saying that we knew all this already , we knew it was happening , there 's nothing new here . And we did not know that U.S. intelligence agencies go to extremes such as infiltrating standardization bodies to sabotage encryption algorithms on purpose . So what do we actually know about the leaks ? Everything is based on the files leaked by Mr. Snowden . And every single one of these companies denies . And then there 's the argument that okay , yes , this might be going on , but then again , other countries are doing it as well . And when we do have the occasional European success story , even those , then , typically end up being sold to the United States . And then the argument that the United States is only fighting terrorists . But people are scared about terrorists , and then they think that maybe that surveillance is okay because they have nothing to hide . ( Applause ) Because we have this thing called privacy , and if you really think that you have nothing to hide , please make sure that 's the first thing you tell me , because then I know that I should not trust you with any secrets , because obviously you ca n't keep a secret . ( Applause ) And one thing we should all understand is that we are brutally honest with search engines . And surveillance changes history . That 's what it 's about . So Mr. Snowden , he 's been blamed for many things . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So , what is there to be done ? Should we worry . But maybe you do n't have to do it alone . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 