Hans Rosling : I 'm going to ask you three multiple choice questions . Use this device . Use this device to answer . The first question is , how did the number of deaths per year from natural disaster , how did that change during the last century ? Did it more than double , did it remain about the same in the world as a whole , or did it decrease to less than half ? Please answer A , B or C. I see lots of answers . This is much faster than I do it at universities . They are so slow . They keep thinking , thinking , thinking . Oh , very , very good . And we go to the next question . So how long did women 30 years old in the world go to school : seven years , five years or three years ? A , B or C ? Please answer . And we go to the next question . In the last 20 years , how did the percentage of people in the world who live in extreme poverty change ? Extreme poverty — not having enough food for the day . Did it almost double , did it remain more or less the same , or did it halve ? A , B or C ? Now , answers . You see , deaths from natural disasters in the world , you can see it from this graph here , from 1900 to 2000 . In 1900 , there was about half a million people who died every year from natural disasters : floods , earthquakes , volcanic eruption , whatever , droughts . And then , how did that change ? Gapminder asked the public in Sweden . This is how they answered . The Swedish public answered like this : Fifty percent thought it had doubled , 38 percent said it 's more or less the same , 12 said it had halved . This is the best data from the disaster researchers , and it goes up and down , and it goes to the Second World War , and after that it starts to fall and it keeps falling and it 's down to much less than half . The world has been much , much more capable as the decades go by to protect people from this , you know . So only 12 percent of the Swedes know this . So I went to the zoo and I asked the chimps . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) The chimps do n't watch the evening news , so the chimps , they choose by random , so the Swedes answer worse than random . Let 's look at the next answer here : women in school . So how come ? I think it 's like this , that everyone is aware that there are countries and there are areas where girls have great difficulties . What about poverty ? Well , it 's very clear that poverty here was almost halved , and in U.S. , when we asked the public , only five percent got it right . These questions were a few of the first ones in the pilot phase of the Ignorance Project in Gapminder Foundation that we run , and it was started , this project , last year by my boss , and also my son , Ola Rosling . Look here . But look how this has changed : As I go forward , what has changed , the world population has grown , and the humps start to merge . The challenge we have now is to get away from that , understand where the majority is , and that is very clearly shown in this question . However , Ola 's approach to really measure what we know made headlines , and CNN published these results on their web and they had the questions there , millions answered , and I think there were about 2,000 comments , and this was one of the comments . So Ola told me , `` Take these devices . What shall we do about this , Ola ? Do we have any ideas ? ( Applause ) Ola Rosling : Yes , I have an idea , but first , I 'm so sorry that you were beaten by the chimps . But first , let 's look at why are we so ignorant , and it all starts in this place . We have all different experiences from communities and people we meet , and on top of this , we start school , and we add the next problem . What happens next is news , okay ? An excellent journalist knows how to pick the story that will make headlines , and people will read it because it 's sensational . So these three skewed sources of information were really hard to get away from . Okay , this was good evolutionarily , but now when it comes to the worldview , it is the exact reason why it 's upside down . So how do we solve such problems ? First , we need to measure it , and then we need to cure it . Okay , I gather those facts . So now we come to the practical tricks . Let 's start with the first misconception . There are rich and poor and the gap is increasing . Now , the next preconceived idea is first countries and people need to be very , very rich to get the social development like girls in school and be ready for natural disasters . Let 's look at the last one . With these four rules of thumb , you could probably answer better than the chimps , because the chimps can not do this . Now the question , is this important ? Yeah , it 's important to understand poverty , extreme poverty and how to fight it , and how to bring girls in school . We 're going back to these two humps in 1975 . Thank you very much . Bruno Giussani : Hans and Ola Rosling ! 