Let me show you something . ( Video ) Girl : Okay , that 's a cat sitting in a bed . The boy is petting the elephant . Those are people that are going on an airplane . That 's a big airplane . Fei-Fei Li : This is a three-year-old child describing what she sees in a series of photos . She might still have a lot to learn about this world , but she 's already an expert at one very important task : to make sense of what she sees . Our society is more technologically advanced than ever . We send people to the moon , we make phones that talk to us or customize radio stations that can play only music we like . Yet , our most advanced machines and computers still struggle at this task . So I 'm here today to give you a progress report on the latest advances in our research in computer vision , one of the most frontier and potentially revolutionary technologies in computer science . Yes , we have prototyped cars that can drive by themselves , but without smart vision , they can not really tell the difference between a crumpled paper bag on the road , which can be run over , and a rock that size , which should be avoided . We have made fabulous megapixel cameras , but we have not delivered sight to the blind . Drones can fly over massive land , but do n't have enough vision technology to help us to track the changes of the rainforests . Security cameras are everywhere , but they do not alert us when a child is drowning in a swimming pool . Photos and videos are becoming an integral part of global life . They 're being generated at a pace that 's far beyond what any human , or teams of humans , could hope to view , and you and I are contributing to that at this TED . Yet our most advanced software is still struggling at understanding and managing this enormous content . So in other words , collectively as a society , we 're very much blind , because our smartest machines are still blind . `` Why is this so hard ? '' you may ask . Cameras can take pictures like this one by converting lights into a two-dimensional array of numbers known as pixels , but these are just lifeless numbers . They do not carry meaning in themselves . Just like to hear is not the same as to listen , to take pictures is not the same as to see , and by seeing , we really mean understanding . In fact , it took Mother Nature 540 million years of hard work to do this task , and much of that effort went into developing the visual processing apparatus of our brains , not the eyes themselves . So vision begins with the eyes , but it truly takes place in the brain . So for 15 years now , starting from my Ph.D. at Caltech and then leading Stanford 's Vision Lab , I 've been working with my mentors , collaborators and students to teach computers to see . Our research field is called computer vision and machine learning . It 's part of the general field of artificial intelligence . So ultimately , we want to teach the machines to see just like we do : naming objects , identifying people , inferring 3D geometry of things , understanding relations , emotions , actions and intentions . You and I weave together entire stories of people , places and things the moment we lay our gaze on them . The first step towards this goal is to teach a computer to see objects , the building block of the visual world . In its simplest terms , imagine this teaching process as showing the computers some training images of a particular object , let 's say cats , and designing a model that learns from these training images . How hard can this be ? After all , a cat is just a collection of shapes and colors , and this is what we did in the early days of object modeling . We 'd tell the computer algorithm in a mathematical language that a cat has a round face , a chubby body , two pointy ears , and a long tail , and that looked all fine . But what about this cat ? ( Laughter ) It 's all curled up . So about eight years ago , a very simple and profound observation changed my thinking . Once we know this , we knew we needed to collect a data set that has far more images than we have ever had before , perhaps thousands of times more , and together with Professor Kai Li at Princeton University , we launched the ImageNet project in 2007 . In hindsight , this idea of using big data to train computer algorithms may seem obvious now , but back in 2007 , it was not so obvious . So we carried on . Now that we have the data to nourish our computer brain , we 're ready to come back to the algorithms themselves . We applied this algorithm to millions of Google Street View images across hundreds of American cities , and we have learned something really interesting : first , it confirmed our common wisdom that car prices correlate very well with household incomes . So wait a minute . So to teach a computer to see a picture and generate sentences , the marriage between big data and machine learning algorithm has to take another step . About four months ago , we finally tied all this together and produced one of the first computer vision models that is capable of generating a human-like sentence when it sees a picture for the first time . ( Video ) Computer : A man is standing next to an elephant . FFL : Of course , we 're still working hard to improve our algorithms , and it still has a lot to learn . And the computer still makes mistakes . ( Video ) Computer : A cat lying on a bed in a blanket . FFL : So of course , when it sees too many cats , it thinks everything might look like a cat . ( Video ) Computer : A young boy is holding a baseball bat . FFL : Or , if it has n't seen a toothbrush , it confuses it with a baseball bat . ( Video ) Computer : A man riding a horse down a street next to a building . FFL : We have n't taught Art 101 to the computers . ( Video ) Computer : A zebra standing in a field of grass . FFL : And it has n't learned to appreciate the stunning beauty of nature like you and I do . So it has been a long journey . ( Video ) Computer : A person sitting at a table with a cake . FFL : But there 's so much more to this picture than just a person and a cake . This is my son Leo . Little by little , we 're giving sight to the machines . This is my quest : to give computers visual intelligence and to create a better future for Leo and for the world . Thank you . ( Applause ) 