What do augmented reality and professional football have to do with empathy ? And what is the air speed velocity of an unladen swallow ? Now unfortunately , I 'm only going to answer one of those questions today , so please , try and contain your disappointment . When most people think about augmented reality , they think about `` Minority Report '' and Tom Cruise waving his hands in the air , but augmented reality is not science fiction . Augmented reality is something that will happen in our lifetime , and it will happen because we have the tools to make it happen , and people need to be aware of that , because augmented reality will change our lives just as much as the Internet and the cell phone . Now how do we get to augmented reality ? Step one is the step I 'm wearing right now , Google Glass . I 'm sure many of you are familiar with Google Glass . What you may not be familiar with is that Google Glass is a device that will allow you to see what I see . It will allow you to experience what it is like to be a professional athlete on the field . Right now , the only way you can be on the field is for me to try and describe it to you . I have to use words . I have to create a framework that you then fill in with your imagination . With Google Glass , we can put that underneath a helmet , and we can get a sense of what it 's like to be running down the field at 100 miles an hour , your blood pounding in your ears . You can get a sense of what it 's like to have a 250-pound man sprinting at you trying to decapitate you with every ounce of his being . And I 've been on the receiving end of that , and it does n't feel very good . Now , I have some footage to show you of what it 's like to wear Google Glass underneath the helmet to give you a taste of that . Unfortunately , it 's not NFL practice footage because the NFL thinks emergent technology is what happens when a submarine surfaces , but — ( Laughter ) — we do what we can . So let 's pull up some video . ( Video ) Chris Kluwe : Go . Chris Kluwe : So as you can see , small taste of what it 's like to get tackled on the football field from the perspective of the tacklee . ( Video ) Quarterback : Hey , Mice 54 ! Mice 54 ! Blue 8 ! Blue 8 ! Go ! Oh ! CK : So again , this takes you a little bit closer to what it 's like to be on that field , but this is nowhere what it 's like to be on the NFL . Fans want that experience . Well , once we have that experience with GoPro and Google Glass , how do we make it more immersive ? How do we take that next step ? Well , we take that step by going to something called the Oculus Rift , which I 'm sure many of you are also familiar with . CK : So that is the experience of a man on a roller coaster in fear of his life . But this is not yet augmented reality . So a brief history of technology in the NFL . In 1994 , the NFL put helmet radios into the helmets of the quarterbacks , and later the defense . In 2023 , imagine you 're a player walking back to the huddle , and you have your next play displayed right in front of your face on your clear plastic visor that you already wear right now . But augmented reality is not just an enhanced playbook . What would that look like on the field ? Well , imagine you 're the quarterback . Now this is something that will create massive excitement in the game . But the question I ask you is , is that 's all that we 're content to use augmented reality for ? Are we going to use it solely for our panem , our circenses , our entertainment as normal ? Because I believe that we can use augmented reality for something more . Ladies and gentlemen , augmented reality is coming . Thank you . ( Applause ) 