So I grew up in Orlando , Florida . I was the son of an aerospace engineer . I lived and breathed the Apollo program . We either saw the launches from our backyard or we saw it by driving in the hour over to the Cape . I was impressed by , obviously , space and everything about it , but I was most impressed by the engineering that went into it . Behind me you see an amazing view , a picture that was taken from the International Space Station , and it shows a portion of our planet that 's rarely seen and rarely studied and almost never explored . That place is called the stratosphere . If you start on the planet and you go up and up and up , it gets colder and colder and colder , until you reach the beginning of the stratosphere , and then an amazing thing happens . It gets colder at a much slower rate , and then it starts warming up , and then it gets warmer and warmer until the point where you can almost survive without any protection , about zero degrees , and then you end up getting colder and colder , and that 's the top of the stratosphere . It is one of the least accessible places on our planet . Most often , when it 's visited , it 's by astronauts who are blazing up at it at probably several times the speed of sound , and they get a few seconds on the way up , and then they get this blazing ball of fire coming back in , on the way back in . But the question I asked is , is it possible to linger in the stratosphere ? Is it possible to experience the stratosphere ? Is it possible to explore the stratosphere ? I studied this using my favorite search engine for quite a while , about a year , and then I made a scary phone call . It was a reference from a friend of mine to call Taber MacCallum from Paragon Space Development Corporation , and I asked him the question : is it possible to build a system to go into the stratosphere ? And he said it was . And after a period of about three years , we proceeded to do just that . And on October 24 of last year , in this suit , I started on the ground , I went up in a balloon to 135,890 feet -- but who 's counting ? ( Laughter ) Came back to Earth at speeds of up to 822 miles an hour . ( Applause ) But this is really a science talk , and it 's really an engineering talk , and what was amazing to me about that experience is that Taber said , yes , I think we can build a stratospheric suit , and more than that , come down tomorrow and let 's talk to the team that formed the core of the group that actually built it . Three years later , this is what we have . The main advantage of this system is weight and complexity . So with that , I want to take you to Roswell , New Mexico , on October 24 . ( Laughter ) You can see the top . ( Laughter ) That 's me waving with my left hand . ( Laughter ) My team forbade me from using my right hand . ( Laughter ) It took two hours and seven minutes to go up , and it was the most peaceful two hours and seven minutes . It 's interesting here , because if you look , I 'm right over the airport , and I 'm probably at 50,000 feet , but immediately I 'm about to go into a stratospheric wind of over 120 miles an hour . ( Video ) Ground control . Alan Eustace : There 's the balloon going by , fully inflated at this point . ( Video ) Ground control : We lost the data . AE : So now I 'm down low right now and you can basically see the parachute come out right there . ( Laughter ) I hate to admit it , but this was n't even close to my worst landing . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) ( Video ) Man : How are you doing ? AE : Hi there ! Yay . ( Laughter ) So I want to tell you one thing that you might not have seen in that video , but one of the most critical parts of the entire thing was the release and what happens right after you release . So nothing is possible without an amazing team of people . ( Applause ) I would constantly give them speeches about the safety of technology , and they were n't hearing any of it . Thank you . ( Applause ) 