This will not be a speech like any one I have ever given . I will talk to you today about the failure of leadership in global politics and in our globalizing economy . And I wo n't provide some feel-good , ready-made solutions . But I will in the end urge you to rethink , actually take risks , and get involved in what I see as a global evolution of democracy . Failure of leadership . What is the failure of leadership today ? And why is our democracy not working ? Well , I believe that the failure of leadership is the fact that we have taken you out of the process . So let me , from my personal experiences , give you an insight , so that you can step back and maybe understand why it is so difficult to cope with the challenges of today and why politics is going down a blind alley . Let 's start from the beginning . Let 's start from democracy . Well , if you go back to the Ancient Greeks , it was a revelation , a discovery , that we had the potential , together , to be masters of our own fate , to be able to examine , to learn , to imagine , and then to design a better life . And democracy was the political innovation which protected this freedom , because we were liberated from fear so that our minds in fact , whether they be despots or dogmas , could be the protagonists . Democracy was the political innovation that allowed us to limit the power , whether it was of tyrants or of high priests , their natural tendency to maximize power and wealth . Well , I first began to understand this when I was 14 years old . I used to , to try to avoid homework , sneak down to the living room and listen to my parents and their friends debate heatedly . You see , then Greece was under control of a very powerful establishment which was strangling the country , and my father was heading a promising movement to reimagine Greece , to imagine a Greece where freedom reigned and where , maybe , the people , the citizens , could actually rule their own country . I used to join him in many of the campaigns , and you can see me here next to him . I 'm the younger one there , to the side . You may not recognize me because I used to part my hair differently there . ( Laughter ) So in 1967 , elections were coming , things were going well in the campaign , the house was electric . Then one night , military trucks drive up to our house . Well , we survived , but democracy did not . Now , today , our democracies are again facing a moment of truth . So I went to Brussels on a mission to make the case for a united European response , one that would calm the markets and give us the time to make the necessary reforms . I said , `` Why ? These are important decisions . Another prime minister comes in and says , `` No , we have to have an agreement now , because in 10 minutes , the markets are opening up in Japan , and there will be havoc in the global economy . We quickly came to a decision in those 10 minutes . Greece , yes , triggered the Euro crisis , and some people blame me for pulling the trigger . Greece , you see , was only a preview of what is in store for us all . But let me warn you , this is not just about Greece . It 's no wonder that many political leaders , and I do n't exclude myself , have lost the trust of our people . Since leaving office , I have had time to reflect . So let 's try something else . And those who shunned politics , well , they were idiots . Today we have globalized the markets but we have not globalized our democratic institutions . So how then do we reunite the two halves of the agora ? How do we democratize globalization ? And I 'm not talking about the necessary reforms of the United Nations or the G20 . Well , this is exactly where I think Europe fits in . Now , some might accuse me of being naive , putting my faith in the power and the wisdom of the people . But I also know that this disruptive force of change wo n't be driven by the politics of today . It is in their interest that all of us are idiots . Thank you . ( Applause ) Bruno Giussani : You seem to describe a political leadership that is kind of unprepared and a prisoner of the whims of the financial markets , and that scene in Brussels that you describe , to me , as a citizen , is terrifying . George Papandreou : Well , obviously there were constraints which did n't allow me or others to make the types of decisions we would have wanted , and obviously I had hoped that we would have the time to make the reforms which would have dealt with the deficit rather than trying to cut the deficit which was the symptom of the problem . BG : You seem to suggest that the way forward is more Europe , and that is not to be an easy discourse right now in most European countries . GP : Well , I think one of the worst things that happened during this crisis is that we started a blame game . Now , more Europe for me is not simply giving more power to Brussels . BG : George , thank you for coming to TED . GP : Thank you very much.BG : Thank you . 