Doc Edgerton inspired us with awe and curiosity with this photo of a bullet piercing through an apple , and exposure just a millionth of a second . But now , 50 years later , we can go a million times faster and see the world not at a million or a billion , but one trillion frames per second . I present to you a new type of photography , femto-photography , a new imaging technique so fast that it can create slow motion videos of light in motion . And with that , we can create cameras that can look around corners , beyond line of sight , or see inside our body without an x-ray , and really challenge what we mean by a camera . Now if I take a laser pointer and turn it on and off in one trillionth of a second -- which is several femtoseconds -- I 'll create a packet of photons barely a millimeter wide . And that packet of photons , that bullet , will travel at the speed of light , and again , a million times faster than an ordinary bullet . Now , if you take that bullet and take this packet of photons and fire into this bottle , how will those photons shatter into this bottle ? How does light look in slow motion ? [ Light in Slow Motion ... 10 Billion x Slow ] Now , the whole event -- ( Applause ) Now remember , the whole event is effectively taking place in less than a nanosecond -- that 's how much time it takes for light to travel . But I 'm slowing down in this video by a factor of 10 billion , so you can see the light in motion . ( Laughter ) But Coca-Cola did not sponsor this research . ( Laughter ) Now , there 's a lot going on in this movie , so let me break this down and show you what 's going on . Now , if you take an ordinary bullet and let it go the same distance and slow down the video -- again , by a factor of 10 billion -- do you know how long you 'll have to sit here to watch that movie ? ( Laughter ) A day , a week ? Actually , a whole year . ( Laughter ) of a slow , ordinary bullet in motion . And what about some still-life photography ? You can watch the ripples , again , washing over the table , the tomato and the wall in the back . I thought : this is how nature paints a photo , one femto frame at a time , but of course our eye sees an integral composite . ( Laughter ) So how did my team at MIT create this camera ? Now , as photographers , you know , if you take a short exposure photo , you get very little light . And we can take all that raw data and treat it in very interesting ways . And it 's not science fiction . So after our paper was published in Nature Communications , it was highlighted by Nature.com , and they created this animation . ( Music ) [ A laser pulse is fired ] ( Music ) Ramesh Raskar : We 're going to fire those bullets of light , and they 're going to hit this wall , and because of the packet of the photons , they will scatter in all the directions , and some of them will reach our hidden mannequin , which in turn will again scatter that light , and again in turn , the door will reflect some of that scattered light . ( Music ) And because we have a camera that can run so fast -- our femto-camera -- it has some unique abilities . ( Music ) By shining one laser , we can record one raw photo , which , if you look on the screen , does n't really make any sense . So this is our reconstruction . ( Music ) ( Applause ) Now , we have some ways to go before we take this outside the lab on the road , but in the future , we could create cars that avoid collisions with what 's around the bend . Now , like Doc Edgerton , a scientist himself , science became art -- an art of ultra-fast photography . But there 's also something funny going on here . It turns out , because we 're recording nearly at the speed of light , we have strange effects , and Einstein would have loved to see this picture . ( Laughter ) The order at which events take place in the world appears in the camera sometimes in reversed order . So whether it 's for photography around corners , or creating the next generation of health imaging , or creating new visualizations , since our invention , we have open-sourced all the data and details on our website , and our hope is that the DIY , the creative and the research communities will show us that we should stop obsessing about the megapixels in cameras -- ( Laughter ) and start focusing on the next dimension in imaging . Thank you . ( Applause ) 