Over the last two decades , India has become a global hub for software development and offshoring of back office services , as we call it , and what we were interested in finding out was that because of this huge industry that has started over the last two decades in India , offshoring software development and back office services , there 's been a flight of white collar jobs from the developed world to India . When this is combined with the loss of manufacturing jobs to China , it has , you know , led to considerable angst amongst the Western populations . In fact , if you look at polls , they show a declining trend for support for free trade in the West . Now , the Western elites , however , have said this fear is misplaced . For example , if you have read — I suspect many of you have done so — read the book by Thomas Friedman called `` The World Is Flat , '' he said , basically , in his book that , you know , this fear for free trade is wrong because it assumes , it 's based on a mistaken assumption that everything that can be invented has been invented . In fact , he says , it 's innovation that will keep the West ahead of the developing world , with the more sophisticated , innovative tasks being done in the developed world , and the less sophisticated , shall we say , drudge work being done in the developing world . Now , what we were trying to understand was , is this true ? Could India become a source , or a global hub , of innovation , just like it 's become a global hub for back office services and software development ? And for the last four years , my coauthor Phanish Puranam and I spent investigating this topic . Initially , or , you know , as people would say , you know , in fact the more aggressive people who are supporting the Western innovative model , say , `` Where are the Indian Googles , iPods and Viagras , if the Indians are so bloody smart ? '' ( Laughter ) So initially , when we started our research , we went and met several executives , and we asked them , `` What do you think ? Will India go from being a favored destination for software services and back office services to a destination for innovation ? '' They laughed . Sometimes , it took a more , took a veneer of sophistication , and people said , `` You know , it 's nothing to do with Indians . So we started examining the R & amp ; amp ; D and innovation labs of Silicon Valley . So I immediately said , `` Well , but you could not have been educated in India , right ? You must have gotten your education here . So off we went to India . Instead , innovation , if you remember , some of you may have read the famous economist Schumpeter , he said , `` Innovation is novelty in how value is created and distributed . Once you take this , there 's no reason to restrict innovation , the beneficiaries of innovation , just to end users . The first type of invisible innovation out of India is what we call innovation for business customers , which is led by the multinational corporations , which have -- in the last two decades , there have been 750 R & amp ; amp ; D centers set up in India by multinational companies employing more than 400,000 professionals . When we went and talked to the people in those innovation centers and asked them what are they working on , they said , `` We are working on global products . The other thing we were told then was , `` Yes , but , you know , the kind of work that is coming out of the Indian R & amp ; amp ; D center can not be compared to the kind of work that is coming out of the U.S. R & amp ; amp ; D centers . Interestingly , what he finds is — and by the way , the way we look at the quality of a patent is what we call forward citations : How many times does a future patent reference the older patent ? — he finds something very interesting . The second kind of invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call outsourcing innovation to Indian companies , where many companies today are contracting Indian companies to do a major part of their product development work for their global products which are going to be sold to the entire world . The third kind of invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call process innovations , because of an injection of intelligence by Indian firms . Only in India do millions of young people dream of working in a call center . For example , 24/7 Customer , traditional call center company , used to be a traditional call center company . And the last kind of innovation , invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call management innovation . So , what I 'm trying to say is , what we are finding in our research is , that if products for end users is the visible tip of the innovation iceberg , India is well represented in the invisible , large , submerged portion of the innovation iceberg . Now , this has , of course , some implications , and so we developed three implications of this research . Now , what happens is , when you outsource the bottom rung of the ladder to India for innovation and for R & amp ; amp ; D work , at some stage in the very near future you are going to have to confront a problem , which is where does the next step of the ladder people come from within your company ? So you have two choices then : Either you bring the people from India into the developed world to take positions in the next step of the ladder — immigration — or you say , there 's so many people in the bottom step of the ladder waiting to take the next position in India , why do n't we move the next step to India ? What we are trying to say is that once you outsource the bottom end of the ladder , you -- it 's a self-perpetuating act , because of the sinking skill ladder , and the sinking skill ladder is simply the point that you ca n't be an investment banker without having been an analyst once . The second thing we bring up is what we call the browning of the TMT , the top management teams . Right ? And the last thing we point out in this slide , which is , you know , that to this story , there 's one caveat . So finally , I want to conclude by showing you the profile of one company , IBM . Here is the profile of employees of IBM over the last decade . Well , in 2010 , they decided they 're not going to reveal this data anymore , so I had to make some estimates based on various sources . Ladies and gentlemen , thank you very much . 