Growing up in Taiwan as the daughter of a calligrapher , one of my most treasured memories was my mother showing me the beauty , the shape and the form of Chinese characters . Ever since then , I was fascinated by this incredible language . But to an outsider , it seems to be as impenetrable as the Great Wall of China . Over the past few years , I 've been wondering if I can break down this wall , so anyone who wants to understand and appreciate the beauty of this sophisticated language could do so . I started thinking about how a new , fast method of learning Chinese might be useful . Since the age of five , I started to learn how to draw every single stroke for each character in the correct sequence . I learned new characters every day during the course of the next 15 years . Since we only have five minutes , it 's better that we have a fast and simpler way . A Chinese scholar would understand 20,000 characters . You only need 1,000 to understand the basic literacy . The top 200 will allow you to comprehend 40 percent of basic literature -- enough to read road signs , restaurant menus , to understand the basic idea of the web pages or the newspapers . Today I 'm going to start with eight to show you how the method works . You are ready ? Open your mouth as wide as possible until it 's square . You get a mouth . This is a person going for a walk . Person . If the shape of the fire is a person with two arms on both sides , as if she was yelling frantically , `` Help ! I 'm on fire ! '' -- This symbol actually is originally from the shape of the flame , but I like to think that way . Whichever works for you . This is a tree . Tree . This is a mountain . The sun . The moon . The symbol of the door looks like a pair of saloon doors in the wild west . I call these eight characters radicals . They are the building blocks for you to create lots more characters . A person . If someone walks behind , that is `` to follow . '' As the old saying goes , two is company , three is a crowd . If a person stretched their arms wide , this person is saying , `` It was this big . '' The person inside the mouth , the person is trapped . He 's a prisoner , just like Jonah inside the whale . One tree is a tree . Two trees together , we have the woods . Three trees together , we create the forest . Put a plank underneath the tree , we have the foundation . Put a mouth on the top of the tree , that 's `` idiot . '' ( Laughter ) Easy to remember , since a talking tree is pretty idiotic . So we have gone through almost 30 characters . The character on the left is two mountains stacked on top of each other . This is a slide to remind me that I should stop talking and get off of the stage . ( Applause ) 