So , indeed , I have spent my life looking into the lives of presidents who are no longer alive . Waking up with Abraham Lincoln in the morning , thinking of Franklin Roosevelt when I went to bed at night . But when I try and think about what I 've learned about the meaning in life , my mind keeps wandering back to a seminar that I took when I was a graduate student at Harvard with the great psychologist Erik Erikson . He taught us that the richest and fullest lives attempt to achieve an inner balance between three realms : work , love and play . And that to pursue one realm to the disregard of the other , is to open oneself to ultimate sadness in older age . Whereas to pursue all three with equal dedication , is to make possible a life filled not only with achievement , but with serenity . So since I tell stories , let me look back on the lives of two of the presidents I 've studied to illustrate this point -- Abraham Lincoln and Lyndon Johnson . As for that first sphere of work , I think what Abraham Lincoln 's life suggests is that fierce ambition is a good thing . He had a huge ambition . But it was n't simply for office or power or celebrity or fame -- what it was for was to accomplish something worthy enough in life so that he could make the world a little better place for his having lived in it . Even as a child , it seemed , Lincoln dreamed heroic dreams . He somehow had to escape that hard-scrabble farm from which he was born . No schooling was possible for him , except a few weeks here , a few weeks there . But he read books in every spare moment he could find . It was said when he got a copy of the King James Bible or `` Aesop 's Fables , '' he was so excited he could n't sleep . He could n't eat . The great poet Emily Dickinson once said , `` There is no frigate like a book to take us lands away . '' How true for Lincoln . Though he never would travel to Europe , he went with Shakespeare 's kings to merry England , he went with Lord Byron 's poetry to Spain and Portugal . Literature allowed him to transcend his surroundings . But there were so many losses in his early life that he was haunted by death . His mother died when he was only nine years old ; his only sister , Sarah , in childbirth a few years later ; and his first love , Ann Rutledge , at the age of 22 . Moreover , when his mother lay dying , she did not hold out for him the hope that they would meet in an afterworld . She simply said to him , `` Abraham , I 'm going away from you now , and I shall never return . '' As a result he became obsessed with the thought that when we die our life is swept away -- dust to dust . But only as he grew older did he develop a certain consolation from an ancient Greek notion -- but followed by other cultures as well -- that if you could accomplish something worthy in your life , you could live on in the memory of others . Your honor and your reputation would outlive your earthly existence . And that worthy ambition became his lodestar . It carried him through the one significant depression that he suffered when he was in his early 30s . Three things had combined to lay him low . He had broken his engagement with Mary Todd , not certain he was ready to marry her , but knowing how devastating it was to her that he did that . His one intimate friend , Joshua Speed , was leaving Illinois to go back to Kentucky because Speed 's father had died . And his political career in the state legislature was on a downward slide . He was so depressed that friends worried he was suicidal . They took all knives and razors and scissors from his room . And his great friend Speed went to his side and said , `` Lincoln , you must rally or you will die . '' He said that , `` I would just as soon die right now , but I 've not yet done anything to make any human being remember that I have lived . '' So fueled by that ambition , he returned to the state legislature . He eventually won a seat in Congress . He then ran twice for the Senate , lost twice . `` Everyone is broken by life , '' Ernest Hemingway once said , `` but some people are stronger in the broken places . '' So then he surprised the nation with an upset victory for the presidency over three far more experienced , far more educated , far more celebrated rivals . And then when he won the general election , he stunned the nation even more by appointing each of these three rivals into his Cabinet . It was an unprecedented act at the time because everybody thought , `` He 'll look like a figurehead compared to these people . '' They said , `` Why are you doing this , Lincoln ? '' He said , `` Look , these are the strongest and most able men in the country . The country is in peril . I need them by my side . '' But perhaps my old friend Lyndon Johnson might have put it in less noble fashion : `` Better to have your enemies inside the tent pissing out , than outside the tent pissing in . '' ( Laughter ) But it soon became clear that Abraham Lincoln would emerge as the undisputed captain of this unruly team . In 1863 , when the Emancipation Proclamation was signed , he brought his old friend , Joshua Speed , back to the White House , and remembered that conversation of decades before , when he was so sad . I was so thrilled to find an interview with the great Russian writer , Leo Tolstoy , in a New York newspaper in the early 1900s . So in the end that powerful ambition that had carried Lincoln through his bleak childhood had been realized . My relationship with him began on a rather curious level . I like to believe it was because I was a good listener . Everything was working perfectly , until one day he said he wanted to discuss our relationship . It was pretty embarrassing , given what was going on in my mind . But it also brought home to me the lessons which Erik Erikson had tried to instill in all of us about the importance of finding balance in life . And yet , years of concentration solely on work and individual success meant that in his retirement he could find no solace in family , in recreation , in sports or in hobbies . So as for that third sphere of play , which he never had learned to enjoy , I 've learned over the years that even this sphere requires a commitment of time and energy -- enough so that a hobby , a sport , a love of music , or art , or literature , or any form of recreation , can provide true pleasure , relaxation and replenishment . But an even more important form of relaxation for him , that Lyndon Johnson never could enjoy , was a love of -- somehow -- humor , and feeling out what hilarious parts of life can produce as a sidelight to the sadness . One of his favorite stories , for example , had to do with the Revolutionary War hero , Ethan Allen . So you can imagine , if you are in the middle of a tense cabinet meeting -- and he had hundreds of these stories -- you would have to relax . It all began when I was only six years old , and my father taught me that mysterious art of keeping score while listening to baseball games -- so that when he went to work in New York during the day , I could record for him the history of that afternoon 's Brooklyn Dodgers game . In fact , I 'm convinced I learned the narrative art from those nightly sessions with my father . The first occurred because the Dodgers ' catcher , Roy Campanella , came to my hometown of Rockville Centre , Long Island , just as I was in preparation for my first Holy Communion . And then came my second sin . Well , though my father died of a sudden heart attack when I was still in my 20s , before I had gotten married and had my three sons , I have passed his memory -- as well as his love of baseball -- on to my boys . I must say there is magic in these moments . 