Server : May I help you , sir ? Customer : Uh , let 's see . Server : We have pan seared registry error sprinkled with the finest corrupted data , binary brioche , RAM sandwiches , Conficker fitters , and a scripting salad with or without polymorphic dressing , and a grilled coding kabob . Customer : I 'd like a RAM sandwich and a glass of your finest Code 39 . Server : Would you like any desserts , sir ? Our special is tracking cookie . Customer : I 'd like a batch of some zombie tracking cookies , thank you . Server : Coming right up , sir . Your food will be served shortly . ( Applause ) Maya Penn : I 've been drawing ever since I could hold a crayon , and I 've been making animated flip books since I was three years old . At that age , I also learned about what an animator was . There was a program on TV about jobs most kids do n't know about . When I understood that an animator makes the cartoons I saw on TV , I immediately said , `` That 's what I want to be . '' I do n't know if I said it mentally or out loud , but that was a greatly defining moment in my life . Animation and art has always been my first love . It was my love for technology that sparked the idea for `` Malicious Dishes . '' There was a virus on my computer , and I was trying to get rid of it , and all of a sudden , I just thought , what if viruses have their own little world inside the computer ? Maybe a restaurant where they meet up and do virusy things ? And thus , `` Malicious Dishes '' was born . At four years old , my dad showed me how to take apart a computer and put it back together again . That started my love for technology . I built my first website myself in HTML , and I 'm learning JavaScript and Python . I 'm also working on an animated series called `` The Pollinators . '' It 's about bees and other pollinators in our environment and why they 're so important . If plants are n't pollinated by the pollinators , then all creatures , including ourselves , that depend on these plants , would starve . So I decided to take these cool creatures and make a superhero team . ( Applause ) ( Foot stomp ) ( Music ) ( Roar ) Pollinator : Deforestsaurus ! I should have known ! I need to call on the rest of the Pollinators ! ( Music ) Thank you . ( Applause ) All of my animations start with ideas , but what are ideas ? Ideas can spark a movement . Ideas are opportunities and innovation . Ideas truly are what make the world go round . If it was n't for ideas , we would n't be where we are now with technology , medicine , art , culture , and how we even live our lives . At eight years old , I took my ideas and started my own business called Maya 's Ideas , and my nonprofit , Maya 's Ideas for the Planet . ( Laughter ) And I make eco-friendly clothing and accessories . Now I did n't have any business plans at only eight years old . Now , I had a lot to learn about my business , like branding and marketing , staying engaged with my customers , and seeing what sold the most and the least . Now a lot of people ask me , why is your business eco-friendly ? I 've had a passion for protecting the environment and its creatures since I was little . We live in a big , diverse and beautiful world , and that makes me even more passionate to save it . Thank you , and peace and blessings . ( Applause ) Thank you . Pat Mitchell : So , you heard Maya talk about the amazing parents who are behind this incredible woman . 