I was born in Den Bosch , where the painter Hieronymus Bosch named himself after . And so I 've always been very fond of this painter who lived and worked in the 15th century . And what is interesting about him in relation to morality is that he lived at a time where religion 's influence was waning , and he was sort of wondering , I think , what would happen with society if there was no religion or if there was less religion . And so he painted this famous painting , `` The Garden of Earthly Delights , '' which some have interpreted as being humanity before the Fall , or being humanity without any Fall at all . And so it makes you wonder , what would happen if we had n't tasted the fruit of knowledge , so to speak , and what kind of morality would we have ? Much later , as a student , I went to a very different garden , a zoological garden in Arnhem where we keep chimpanzees . This is me at an early age with a baby chimpanzee . ( Laughter ) And I discovered there that the chimpanzees are very power hungry and wrote a book about it . Now in the process of doing all this work on power and dominance and aggression and so on , I discovered that chimpanzees reconcile after fights . Now this is very interesting because at the time everything was about competition and aggression , and so it would n't make any sense . So we have this image in political science , economics , the humanities , philosophy for that matter , that man is a wolf to man . So these are the pillars of morality . So let me give you a few examples here . ( Laughter ) So there are two interesting parts about this . We do the same task with elephants . And the first tape you 're going to see is two elephants who are released together arrive at the apparatus . And so what we do in the next step is we release one elephant before the other , and that elephant needs to be smart enough to stay there and wait and not pull at the rope -- because if he pulls at the rope , it disappears and the whole test is over . Now something on empathy . One is the body channel . So synchronization , which is part of that whole empathy mechanism is a very old one in the animal kingdom . And we study that in our chimpanzees by presenting them with an animated head . Now we also study more complex expressions . We also recently published an experiment you may have heard about . So this is a study we did with Vicky Horner . So the one who makes the choices -- that 's the interesting part here -- for the one who makes the choices , it does n't really matter . And if the partner puts pressure on them -- so if the partner starts spitting water and intimidating them -- then the choices go down . So the final experiment that I want to mention to you is our fairness study . So what we did is we put two capuchin monkeys side-by-side . Recently we videotaped it with new monkeys who 'd never done the task , thinking that maybe they would have a stronger reaction , and that turned out to be right . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Let me tell you -- I still have two minutes left , let me tell you a funny story about this . Now another one wrote a whole chapter saying that he would believe it had something to do with fairness if the one who got grapes would refuse the grapes . So let me summarize . And I thank you for your attention . ( Applause ) 