( Aquatic noises ) So this video was taken at Aquarius undersea laboratory four miles off the coast of Key Largo , about 60 feet below the surface . NASA uses this extreme environment to train astronauts and aquanauts , and last year , they invited us along for the ride . All the footage was taken from our open ROV , which is a robot that we built in our garage . So ROV stands for Remote Operated Vehicle , which in our case means our little robot sends live video across that ultra-thin tether back to the computer topside . It 's open source , meaning we publish and share all of our design files and all of our code online , allowing anyone to modify or improve or change the design . It 's built with mostly off-the-shelf parts and costs about 1,000 times cheaper than the ROVs James Cameron used to explore the Titanic . So ROVs are n't new . They 've been around for decades . Scientists use ROVs to explore the oceans . Oil and gas companies use them for exploration and construction . What we 've built is n't unique . It 's how we 've built it that 's really unique . So I want to give you a quick story of how it got started . So a few years ago , my friend Eric and I decided we wanted to explore this underwater cave in the foothills of the Sierras . We had heard this story about lost gold from a Gold Rush-era robbery , and we wanted to go up there . Unfortunately , we did n't have any money and we did n't have any tools to do it . So Eric had an initial design idea for a robot , but we did n't have all the parts figured out , so we did what anybody would do in our situation : we asked the Internet for help . More specifically , we created this website , openROV.com , and shared our intentions and our plans For the first few months , it was just Eric and I talking back to each other on the forums , but pretty soon , we started to get feedback from makers and hobbyists , and then actually professional ocean engineers who had some suggestions for what we should do . We kept working on it . We learned a lot . We kept prototyping , and eventually , we decided we wanted to go to the cave . We were ready . So about that time , our little expedition became quite a story , and it got picked up in The New York Times . And we were pretty much just overwhelmed with interest from people who wanted a kit that they could build this open ROV themselves . So we decided to put the project on Kickstarter , and when we did , we raised our funding goal in about two hours , and all of a sudden , had this money to make these kits . But then we had to learn how to make them . I mean , we had to learn small batch manufacturing . So we quickly learned that our garage was not big enough to hold our growing operation . But we were able to do it , we got all the kits made , thanks a lot to TechShop , which was a big help to us , and we shipped these kits all over the world just before Christmas of last year , so it was just a few months ago . But we 're already starting to get video and photos back from all over the world , including this shot from under the ice in Antarctica . We 've also learned the penguins love robots . ( Laughter ) So we 're still publishing all the designs online , encouraging anyone to build these themselves . So you 're probably all wondering : the cave . Thank you . ( Applause ) 