I thought I 'd tell you a little about what I like to write . And I like to immerse myself in my topics . I just like to dive right in and become sort of a human guinea pig . And I see my life as a series of experiments . So , I work for Esquire magazine , and a couple of years ago , I wrote an article called `` My Outsourced Life , '' where I hired a team of people in Bangalore , India , to live my life for me . So , they answered my emails . They answered my phone . They argued with my wife for me , and they read my son bedtime stories . It was the best month of my life , because I just sat back and I read books and watched movies . It was a wonderful experience . More recently , I wrote an article for Esquire called -- about radical honesty . And this is a movement where -- this is started by a psychologist in Virginia , who says that you should never , ever lie , except maybe during poker and golf , his only exceptions . And , more than that , whatever is on your brain should come out of your mouth . So , I decided I would try this for a month . This was the worst month of my life . ( Laughter ) I do not recommend this at all . My most recent book -- my previous book was called `` The Know-It-All , '' and it was about the year I spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z in my quest to learn everything in the world , or more precisely from Aak , which is a type of East Asian music , all the way to Zwyiec , which is -- well , I do n't want to ruin the ending . I love those experiments , but I think that the most profound and life-changing experiment that I 've done is my most recent experiment , where I spent a year trying to follow all of the rules of the Bible , `` The Year of Living Biblically . The second reason I undertook this is because I 'm concerned about the rise of fundamentalism , religious fundamentalism , and people who say they take the Bible literally , which is , according to some polls , as high as 45 or 50 percent of America . The first thing I did was I got a stack of bibles . Then I went down and I read several versions , and I wrote down every single law that I could find . But I also wanted to follow the hundreds of arcane and obscure laws that are in the Bible . The Bible says you can not wear clothes made of mixed fibers , so I thought , `` Sounds strange , but I 'll try it . I will say it was an amazing year because it really was life changing , and incredibly challenging . But it was really interesting , because I was able to make some progress , because I could n't believe how much my behavior changed my thoughts . The second type of rule that was difficult to obey was the rules that will get you into a little trouble in twenty-first-century America . So that was my experience stoning , and it did allow me to talk about , in a more serious way , these big issues . So I thought I would end by telling you just a couple of the take-aways , the bigger lessons that I learned from my year . But this one is -- the Bible says that you can not touch women during certain times of the month , and more than that , you can not sit on a seat where a menstruating woman has sat . So , you know , I met with creationists . And I will say , though , the museum is gorgeous . Another lesson is that thou shalt give thanks . Third , that thou shall have reverence . Thou shall not stereotype . But it was interesting because I had some very preconceived notions about , for instance , evangelical Christianity , and I found that it 's such a wide and varied movement that it is difficult to make generalizations about it . Also , thou shalt not disregard the irrational . And finally I learned that thou shall pick and choose . And I thought I 'd end with just a couple more . 