Chris Anderson : So I guess what we 're going to do is we 're going to talk about your life , and using some pictures that you shared with me . And I think we should start right here with this one . Okay , now who is this ? Martine Rothblatt : This is me with our oldest son Eli . He was about age five . This is taken in Nigeria right after having taken the Washington , D.C. bar exam . CA : Okay . But this does n't really look like a Martine . MR : Right . That was myself as a male , the way I was brought up . Before I transitioned from male to female and Martin to Martine . CA : You were brought up Martin Rothblatt . MR : Correct . CA : And about a year after this picture , you married a beautiful woman . Was this love at first sight ? What happened there ? MR : It was love at the first sight . I saw Bina at a discotheque in Los Angeles , and we later began living together , but the moment I saw her , I saw just an aura of energy around her . I asked her to dance . She said she saw an aura of energy around me . I was a single male parent . She was a single female parent . We showed each other our kids ' pictures , and we 've been happily married for a third of a century now . ( Applause ) CA : And at the time , you were kind of this hotshot entrepreneur , working with satellites . I think you had two successful companies , and then you started addressing this problem of how could you use satellites to revolutionize radio . Tell us about that . MR : Right . I always loved space technology , and satellites , to me , are sort of like the canoes that our ancestors first pushed out into the water . So it was exciting for me to be part of the navigation of the oceans of the sky , and as I developed different types of satellite communication systems , the main thing I did was to launch bigger and more powerful satellites , the consequence of which was that the receiving antennas could be smaller and smaller , and after going through direct television broadcasting , I had the idea that if we could make a more powerful satellite , the receiving dish could be so small that it would just be a section of a parabolic dish , a flat little plate embedded into the roof of an automobile , and it would be possible to have nationwide satellite radio , and that 's Sirius XM today . CA : Wow . So who here has used Sirius ? ( Applause ) MR : Thank you for your monthly subscriptions . ( Laughter ) CA : So that succeeded despite all predictions at the time . MR : Correct . CA : And a couple years after this , you published this book : `` The Apartheid of Sex . MR : My thesis in this book is that there are seven billion people in the world , and actually , seven billion unique ways to express one 's gender . CA : You yourself do n't always feel 100 percent female . MR : Correct . CA : ( Laughs ) Okay , now , this is your gorgeous daughter , Jenesis . MR : Yes , she was finding herself unable to walk up the stairs in our house to her bedroom , and after several months of doctors , she was diagnosed to have a rare , almost invariably fatal disease called pulmonary arterial hypertension . CA : So how did you respond to that ? MR : Well , we first tried to get her to the best doctors we could . CA : But you did n't accept that as the limit of what you could do . MR : Correct . CA : So how on earth did you get access to this drug ? MR : I went to Glaxo Wellcome and after three times being rejected and having the door slammed in my face because they were n't going to out-license the drug to a satellite communications expert , they were n't going to send the drug out to anybody at all , and they thought I did n't have the expertise , finally I was able to persuade a small team of people to work with me and develop enough credibility . CA : And so you put this drug on the market in a really brilliant way , by basically charging what it would take to make the economics work . MR : Oh yes , Chris , but this really was n't a drug that I ended up -- after I wrote the check for 25,000 , and I said , `` Okay , where 's the medicine for Jenesis ? '' they said , `` Oh , Martine , there 's no medicine for Jenesis . CA : And yet , a year or two later , you were there with a medicine that worked for Jenesis . MR : Chris , the astonishing thing is that this absolutely worthless piece of powder that had the sparkle of a promise of hope for Jenesis is not only keeping Jenesis and other people alive today , but produces almost a billion and a half dollars a year in revenue . ( Applause ) CA : So here you go . MR : Yeah , well , every year we pay them 10 percent of 1.5 billion , 150 million dollars , last year 100 million dollars . CA : And the best news of all , I guess , is this . MR : Yes . CA : But not everyone who has this disease has been so fortunate . MR : Exactly , Chris . CA : So you really believe that within , what , a decade , that this shortage of transplantable lungs maybe be cured , through these guys ? MR : Absolutely , Chris . CA : But it 's not just bodies that -- though that is amazing . MR : What this graph means , and it comes from Ray Kurzweil , is that the rate of development in computer processing hardware , firmware and software , has been advancing along a curve such that by the 2020s , as we saw in earlier presentations today , there will be information technology that processes information and the world around us at the same rate as a human mind . CA : And so that being so , you 're actually getting ready for this world by believing that we will soon be able to , what , actually take the contents of our brains and somehow preserve them forever ? How do you describe that ? MR : Well , Chris , what we 're working on is creating a situation where people can create a mind file , and a mind file is the collection of their mannerisms , personality , recollection , feelings , beliefs , attitudes and values , everything that we 've poured today into Google , into Amazon , into Facebook , and all of this information stored there will be able , in the next couple decades , once software is able to recapitulate consciousness , be able to revive the consciousness which is imminent in our mind file . CA : Now you 're not just messing around with this . MR : This is a robot version of my beloved spouse , Bina . CA : And is your thinking here , part of your hope here , is that this version of Bina can in a sense live on forever , or some future upgrade to this version can live on forever ? MR : Yes . CA : So the thing is , Martine , that in any normal conversation , this would sound stark-staring mad , but in the context of your life , what you 've done , some of the things we 've heard this week , the constructed realities that our minds give , I mean , you would n't bet against it . MR : Well , I think it 's really nothing coming from me . CA : I think Bina 's here , right ? MR : She is , yeah . ( Applause ) Thank you , thank you . Bina Rothblatt : It 's been really an exciting journey , and I would have never thought that at the time , but we started making goals and setting those goals and accomplishing things , and before you knew it , we just keep going up and up and we 're still not stopping , so it 's great . CA : Martine told me something really beautiful , just actually on Skype before this , which was that he wanted to live for hundreds of years as a mind file , but not if it was n't with you . BR : That 's right , we want to do it together . CA : So just so as you know , from my point of view , this is n't only one of the most astonishing lives I have heard , it 's one of the most astonishing love stories I 've ever heard . MR : Thank you . ( Applause ) 