I told you three things last year . I told you that the statistics of the world have not been made properly available . Because of that , we still have the old mindset of developing in industrialized countries , which is wrong . And that animated graphics can make a difference . Things are changing and today , on the United Nations Statistic Division Home Page , it says , by first of May , full access to the databases . ( Applause ) And if I could share the image with you on the screen . So three things have happened . U.N. opened their statistic databases , and we have a new version of the software up working as a beta on the net , so you do n't have to download it any longer . And let me repeat what you saw last year . The bubbles are the countries . Here you have the fertility rate -- the number of children per woman -- and there you have the length of life in years . This is 1950 -- those were the industrialized countries , those were developing countries . At that time there was a `` we '' and `` them . '' There was a huge difference in the world . But then it changed , and it went on quite well . And this is what happens . You can see how China is the red , big bubble . The blue there is India . And they go over all this -- I 'm going to try to be a little more serious this year in showing you how things really changed . And it 's Africa that stands out as the problem down here , does n't it ? Large families still , and the HIV epidemic brought down the countries like this . This is more or less what we saw last year , and this is how it will go on into the future . And I will talk on , is this possible ? Because you see now , I presented statistics that do n't exist . Because this is where we are . Will it be possible that this will happen ? I cover my lifetime here , you know ? I expect to live 100 years . And this is where we are today . Now could we look here instead at the economic situation in the world ? And I would like to show that against child survival . We 'll swap the axis . Here you have child mortality -- that is , survival -- four kids dying there , 200 dying there . And this is GDP per capita on this axis . And this was 2007 . And if I go back in time , I 've added some historical statistics -- here we go , here we go , here we go -- not so much statistics 100 years ago . Some countries still had statistics . We are looking down in the archive , and when we are down into 1820 , there is only Austria and Sweden that can produce numbers . ( Laughter ) But they were down here . So this is what happens in the world , if we play the entire world . Let us have a look at the United States . There 's a discrepancy in what 's happening today in the emerging economies . And behind the health is the educational level . And this changes gradually . Singapore is the best one . And in the discussion I attended with global leaders , you know , many say now the problem is that the emerging economies , they are getting out too much carbon dioxide . This really shows you , we have not seen good economic and health progress anywhere in the world without destroying the climate . And how do they live ? If we look at the bed here , we can see that they sleep on a rug on the floor . My own research has not been in IT or anything like this . When you 're in poverty , everything is about survival . I find my experience from 20 years of Africa is that the seemingly impossible is possible . But I have to get serious . Now , what we need to think about is , what is a goal for development , and what are the means for development ? Let me first grade what are the most important means . Now what about goals ? Where are we going toward ? We are not interested in money . So the seemingly impossible is possible . 