So recently , we heard a lot about how social media helps empower protest , and that 's true , but after more than a decade of studying and participating in multiple social movements , I 've come to realize that the way technology empowers social movements can also paradoxically help weaken them . This is not inevitable , but overcoming it requires diving deep into what makes success possible over the long term . And the lessons apply in multiple domains . Now , take Turkey 's Gezi Park protests , July 2013 , which I went back to study in the field . Twitter was key to its organizing . It was everywhere in the park -- well , along with a lot of tear gas . It was n't all high tech . But the people in Turkey had already gotten used to the power of Twitter because of an unfortunate incident about a year before when military jets had bombed and killed 34 Kurdish smugglers near the border region , and Turkish media completely censored this news . Editors sat in their newsrooms and waited for the government to tell them what to do . One frustrated journalist could not take this anymore . He purchased his own plane ticket , and went to the village where this had occurred . And he was confronted by this scene : a line of coffins coming down a hill , relatives wailing . He later he told me how overwhelmed he felt , and did n't know what to do , so he took out his phone , like any one of us might , and snapped that picture and tweeted it out . And voila , that picture went viral and broke the censorship and forced mass media to cover it . So when , a year later , Turkey 's Gezi protests happened , it started as a protest about a park being razed , but became an anti-authoritarian protest . It was n't surprising that media also censored it , but it got a little ridiculous at times . When things were so intense , when CNN International was broadcasting live from Istanbul , CNN Turkey instead was broadcasting a documentary on penguins . Now , I love penguin documentaries , but that was n't the news of the day . An angry viewer put his two screens together and snapped that picture , and that one too went viral , and since then , people call Turkish media the penguin media . ( Laughter ) But this time , people knew what to do . And using Internet to mobilize and publicize protests actually goes back a long way . But think of the moments I just mentioned . Now , to be clear , technology does empower in multiple ways . Now , compare that to what the Civil Rights Movement had to do in 1955 Alabama to protest the racially segregated bus system , which they wanted to boycott . Today , it would be so much easier . Now , I want to be clear : The magic is not in the mimeograph . Now , some people have argued that the problem is today 's movements are not formed of people who take as many risks as before , and that is not true . And there are many efforts . 