I 'm a little nervous , because my wife Yvonne said to me , she said , `` Geoff , you watch the TED Talks . '' I said , `` Yes , honey , I love TED Talks . '' She said , `` You know , they 're like , really smart , talented -- `` I said , `` I know , I know . '' ( Laughter ) She said , `` They do n't want , like , the angry black man . So I said , `` No , I 'm gon na be good , Honey , I 'm gon na be good . ( Applause ) So this is why I 'm excited but I 'm angry . You know , I grew up in the inner city , and there were kids who were failing in schools 56 years ago when I first went to school , and those schools are still lousy today , 56 years later . Look , you go into a place that 's failed kids for 50 years , and you say , `` So what 's the plan ? '' And they say , `` We 'll , we 're going to do what we did last year this year . Now look , I 'm a technology fan , but I have to admit to you all I 'm a little old . So technology has changed . You know , I always wonder , who makes up those rules ? For years I went to -- Look , I went the Harvard Ed School . So why do n't we ? Why do n't we ? Because our business has refused to use science . Here 's what we know . Now , you take pre-kindergarten . But when they really get pushy , people really get pushy , I say , `` I do it because you do it for your kid . So here 's the other thing . Because in my older years , I 've become somewhat of a clairvoyant . So we 're spending all of this money , but we 're getting what ? Teachers need real information right now about what 's happening to their kids . So here 's the other issue that I just think we 've got to be concerned about . If you think about technology , imagine if that 's how we thought about technology . Our job as educators , there 's some stuff we know that we can do . And this is something , by the way , that I think is going to be a challenge for our entire field . When the country cares about something , we 'll spend a trillion dollars without blinking an eye . So once we do that , I 'll no longer be angry . John Legend : So what is the high school dropout rate at Harlem Children 's Zone ? Geoffrey Canada : Well , you know , John , 100 percent of our kids graduated high school last year in my school . JL : So how do you stick with them after they leave high school ? GC : Well , you know , one of the bad problems we have in this country is these kids , the same kids , these same vulnerable kids , when you get them in school , they drop out in record numbers . JL : Well , thank you Dr. Canada . ( Applause ) 