Over the past six months , I 've spent my time traveling . I think I 've done 60,000 miles , but without leaving my desk . And the reason I can do that is because I 'm actually two people . I look like one person but I 'm two people . I 'm Eddie who is here , and at the same time , my alter ego is a big green boxy avatar nicknamed Cyber Frank . So that 's what I spend my time doing . I 'd like to start , if it 's possible , with a test , because I do business stuff , so it 's important that we focus on outcomes . And then I struggled , because I was thinking to myself , `` What should I talk ? What should I do ? It 's a TED audience . It 's got to be stretching . How am I going to make — ? '' So I just hope I 've got the level of difficulty right . So let 's just walk our way through this . Please could you work this through with me ? You can shout out the answer if you like . The question is , which of these horizontal lines is longer ? The answer is ? Audience : The same.Eddie Obeng : The same . No , they 're not the same . ( Laughter ) They 're not the same . And this is what I 'm trying to explain has happened to us in the 21st century . My simple idea is that what 's happened is , the real 21st century around us is n't so obvious to us , so instead we spend our time responding rationally to a world which we understand and recognize , but which no longer exists . So let me take you on a little journey of many of the things I do n't understand . How is that possible ? If you look at the visions we have , the visions of how we 're going to change the world , the key thing is implementation . It gets even worse than that . It 's scary . What we do know is that the world has accelerated . Global is the new scale . And they think it 's a metaphor , but this is not a metaphor . What 's happened in this world of pipe is somebody has flipped it . And I think this is our challenge , because somebody has actually increased — and it 's probably you guys with all your tech and stuff — the speed , the scale and the density of interaction . Now how do we cope and deal with that ? Well , we could just call it turbulence , or we could try and learn . So what does it do to us ? Well , it completely transforms what we have to do , many mistakes we make . I 'll give you an example , a quick one . So what I want to leave you , then , is with the explanation of why I actually traveled 60,000 miles from my desk . 