Those of you who may remember me from TEDGlobal remember me asking a few questions which still preoccupy me . One of them was : Why is it necessary to spend six billion pounds speeding up the Eurostar train when , for about 10 percent of that money , you could have top supermodels , male and female , serving free Chateau Petrus to all the passengers for the entire duration of the journey ? You 'd still have five billion left in change , and people would ask for the trains to be slowed down . Now , you may remember me asking the question as well , a very interesting observation , that actually those strange little signs that actually flash `` 35 '' at you , occasionally accompanying a little smiley face or a frown , according to whether you 're within or outside the speed limit -- those are actually more effective at preventing road accidents than speed cameras , which come with the actual threat of real punishment . So there seems to be a strange disproportionality at work , I think , in many areas of human problem solving , particularly those which involve human psychology , which is : The tendency of the organization or the institution is to deploy as much force as possible , as much compulsion as possible , whereas actually , the tendency of the person is to be almost influenced in absolute reverse proportion to the amount of force being applied . So there seems to be a complete disconnect here . So what I 'm asking for is the creation of a new job title -- I 'll come to this a little later -- and perhaps the addition of a new word into the English language . Because it does seem to me that large organizations including government , which is , of course , the largest organization of all , have actually become completely disconnected with what actually matters to people . Let me give you one example of this . You may remember this as the AOL-Time Warner merger , okay , heralded at the time as the largest single deal of all time . It may still be , for all I know . Now , all of you in this room , in one form or other , are probably customers of one or both of those organizations that merged . Just interested , did anybody notice anything different as a result of this at all ? So unless you happened to be a shareholder of one or the other organizations or one of the dealmakers or lawyers involved in the no-doubt lucrative activity , you 're actually engaging in a huge piece of activity that meant absolutely bugger-all to anybody , okay ? By contrast , years of marketing have taught me that if you actually want people to remember you and to appreciate what you do , the most potent things are actually very , very small . This is from Virgin Atlantic upper-class , it 's the cruet salt and pepper set . Quite nice in itself , they 're little , sort of , airplane things . What 's really , really sweet is every single person looking at these things has exactly the same mischievous thought , which is , `` I reckon I can heist these . '' However , you pick them up and underneath , actually engraved in the metal , are the words , `` Stolen from Virgin Atlantic Airways upper-class . '' ( Laughter ) Now , years after you remember the strategic question of whether you 're flying in a 777 or an Airbus , you remember those words and that experience . Similarly , this is from a hotel in Stockholm , the Lydmar . Now , these are trivial marketing examples , I accept . Our own sense of self-aggrandizement feels that big important problems need to have big important , and most of all , expensive solutions attached to them . Now , here 's another thing that happens , which is what I call sometimes `` Terminal 5 syndrome , '' which is that big , expensive things get big , highly-intelligent attention , and they 're great , and Terminal 5 is absolutely magnificent , until you get down to the small detail , the usability , which is the signage , which is catastrophic . Actually , what happens in the world increasingly -- now , all credit to the British Airport Authority . ( Laughter ) So these questions ... what is happening in the world is the big stuff , actually , is done magnificently well . Why would you willingly expose yourself to bad news ? Okay , you simply would n't . Because there 's a fundamental disconnect , as I said , that actually , the people with the power want to do big expensive things . But what is happening is that effectively -- and the invention of the spreadsheet has n't helped this ; lots of things have n't helped this -- business and government suffers from a kind of physics envy . But what I 'm saying is we could just make things a little bit better for ourselves if we looked at it in this very simple four-way approach . ( Laughter ) I thought it was very indecent of Accenture to ditch Tiger Woods in such a sort of hurried and hasty way . Then there are other things that do n't cost much and achieve absolutely nothing . So the first thing I 'd like is a competition -- to anybody watching this as a film -- is to come up with a name for that stuff on the bottom right . Thank you very much . 