I 'd like to start tonight by something completely different , asking you to join me by stepping off the land and jumping into the open ocean for a moment . 90 percent of the living space on the planet is in the open ocean , and it 's where life -- the title of our seminar tonight -- it 's where life began . And it 's a lively and a lovely place , but we 're rapidly changing the oceans with our -- not only with our overfishing , our irresponsible fishing , our adding of pollutants like fertilizer from our cropland , but also , most recently , with climate change , and Steve Schneider , I 'm sure , will be going into greater detail on this . Now , as we continue to tinker with the oceans , more and more reports are predicting that the kinds of seas that we 're creating will be conducive to low-energy type of animals , like jellyfish and bacteria . And this might be the kind of seas we 're headed for . Now jellyfish are strangely hypnotic and beautiful , and you 'll see lots of gorgeous ones at the aquarium on Friday , but they sting like hell , and jellyfish sushi and sashimi is just not going to fill you up . About 100 grams of jellyfish equals four calories . So it may be good for the waistline , but it probably wo n't keep you satiated for very long . And a sea that 's just filled and teeming with jellyfish is n't very good for all the other creatures that live in the oceans , that is , unless you eat jellyfish . And this is this voracious predator launching a sneak attack on this poor little unsuspecting jellyfish there , a by-the-wind sailor . And that predator is the giant ocean sunfish , the Mola mola , whose primary prey are jellyfish . This animal is in `` The Guinness World Book of Records '' for being the world 's heaviest bony fish . It reaches up to almost 5,000 pounds -- on a diet of jellyfish , primarily . And I think it 's kind of a nice little cosmological convergence here that the Mola mola -- its common name is sunfish -- that its favorite food is the moon jelly . So it 's kind of nice , the sun and the moon getting together this way , even if one is eating the other . Now this is typically how you see sunfish , this is where they get their common name . They like to sunbathe , ca n't blame them . They just lay out on the surface of the sea and most people think they 're sick or lazy , but that 's a typical behavior , they lie out and bask on the surface . Their other name , Mola mola , is -- it sounds Hawaiian , but it 's actually Latin for millstone , and that 's attributable to their roundish , very bizarre , cut-off shape . It 's as if , as they were growing , they just forgot the tail part . And that 's actually what drew me to the Mola in the first place , was this terribly bizarre shape . You know , you look at sharks , and they 're streamlined , and they 're sleek , and you look at tuna , and they 're like torpedoes -- they just give away their agenda . They 're about migration and strength , and then you look at the sunfish . ( Laughter ) And this is just so elegantly mysterious , it 's just -- it really kind of holds its cards a lot tighter than say , a tuna . They look -- maybe they look kind of prehistoric and unfinished , abridged perhaps , but in fact , in fact they are the -- they vie for the top position of the most evolutionarily-derived fish in the sea , right up there with flat fish . They 're in `` The Guinness World Book of Records '' again for being the vertebrate growth champion of the world . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So being a loner is a great thing , especially in today 's seas , because schooling used to be salvation for fishes , but it 's suicide for fishes now . How do you get insight ? How do you seduce an open ocean creature like that to spill its secrets ? Well , there 's some great new technology that has just recently become available , and it 's just a boon for getting insight into open ocean animals . Molas are infamous for carrying tons of parasites . And we 'd love to tag here -- this is an aerial shot of Monterey -- but unfortunately , the Molas here end up looking like this because another one of our locals really likes Molas but in the wrong way . ( Laughter ) And they 'll put their fins out and their eyes go in the back of their head , and the fish come up and they just clean , clean , clean -- because the Molas , you know , there 's just a smorgasbord of parasites . So the hardest part of tagging , now , is after you put that tag on , you have to wait , months . But also what 's important is that they 're not slacker , lazy fish . We see the same pattern -- now with these tags we 're seeing a similar pattern for swordfishes , manta rays , tunas , a real three-dimensional play . Which brings me to my last point , and what I think is kind of the most fun . 