So , why does good sex so often fade , even for couples who continue to love each other as much as ever ? And why does good intimacy not guarantee good sex , contrary to popular belief ? Or , the next question would be , can we want what we already have ? That 's the million-dollar question , right ? And why is the forbidden so erotic ? What is it about transgression that makes desire so potent ? And why does sex make babies , and babies spell erotic disaster in couples ? ( Laughter ) It 's kind of the fatal erotic blow , is n't it ? And when you love , how does it feel ? And when you desire , how is it different ? These are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration on the nature of erotic desire and its concomitant dilemmas in modern love . You know , this is the first time in the history of humankind where we are trying to experience sexuality in the long term not because we want 14 children , for which we need to have even more because many of them wo n't make it , and not because it is exclusively a woman 's marital duty . So what sustains desire , and why is it so difficult ? And at the heart of sustaining desire in a committed relationship , I think , is the reconciliation of two fundamental human needs . So reconciling our need for security and our need for adventure into one relationship , or what we today like to call a passionate marriage , used to be a contradiction in terms . ( Laughter ) So we come to one person , and we basically are asking them to give us what once an entire village used to provide . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So now we get to the existential reality of the story , right ? Because I think , in some way -- and I 'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire is often a crisis of the imagination . So why does good sex so often fade ? What is the relationship between love and desire ? How do they relate , and how do they conflict ? Because therein lies the mystery of eroticism . So if there is a verb , for me , that comes with love , it 's `` to have . But then I took a question with me . So the first group is : I am most drawn to my partner when she is away , when we are apart , when we reunite . But then the second group is even more interesting . But it 's also not when the other person is that far apart that you no longer see them . And then , more importantly , in this description about the other or myself -- it 's the same -- what is most interesting is that there is no neediness in desire . ( Laughter ) I have yet to see somebody who is so turned on by somebody who needs them . ( Laughter ) For good reasons , right ? And then the third group of answers usually would be : when I 'm surprised , when we laugh together , as somebody said to me in the office today , when he 's in his tux , so I said , you know , it 's either the tux or the cowboy boots . Because in some way one could say sex is n't something you do , eh ? Sex is a place you go . You know , animals have sex . So when I began to think about eroticism , I began to think about the poetics of sex . But more importantly , for me to begin to understand who are the couples who have an erotic spark , what sustains desire , I had to go back to the original definition of eroticism , the mystical definition , and I went through it through a bifurcation by looking , actually , at trauma , which is the other side . And so I began to ask a different question . And then I began to ask the reverse question . ( Laughter ) So I turn myself on when , I turn on my desires , I wake up when ... Now , in this paradox between love and desire , what seems to be so puzzling is that the very ingredients that nurture love -- mutuality , reciprocity , protection , worry , responsibility for the other -- are sometimes the very ingredients that stifle desire . ( Laughter ) But no , in our mind up there are a host of things going on that we do n't always know how to bring to the person that we love , because we think love comes with selflessness and in fact desire comes with a certain amount of selfishness in the best sense of the word : the ability to stay connected to one 's self in the presence of another . So I want to draw that little image for you , because this need to reconcile these two sets of needs , we are born with that . But if on this side there is somebody who says , `` I 'm worried . Translate this into adult language . So what happens , if you want to sustain desire , it 's that real dialectic piece . So in this dilemma about reconciling these two sets of fundamental needs , there are a few things that I 've come to understand erotic couples do . ( Laughter ) And you actually just enter that place where you stop being the good citizen who is taking care of things and being responsible . Responsibility and desire just butt heads . Committed sex is premeditated sex . Merry Valentine 's . ( Applause ) 