So what does it mean for a machine to be athletic ? We will demonstrate the concept of machine athleticism and the research to achieve it with the help of these flying machines called quadrocopters , or quads , for short . Quads have been around for a long time . They 're so popular these days because they 're mechanically simple . By controlling the speeds of these four propellers , these machines can roll , pitch , yaw , and accelerate along their common orientation . On board are also a battery , a computer , various sensors and wireless radios . Quads are extremely agile , but this agility comes at a cost . They are inherently unstable , and they need some form of automatic feedback control in order to be able to fly . So , how did it just do that ? Cameras on the ceiling and a laptop serve as an indoor global positioning system . It 's used to locate objects in the space that have these reflective markers on them . This data is then sent to another laptop that is running estimation and control algorithms , which in turn sends commands to the quad , which is also running estimation and control algorithms . The bulk of our research is algorithms . It 's the magic that brings these machines to life . So how does one design the algorithms that create a machine athlete ? We use something broadly called model-based design . We first capture the physics with a mathematical model of how the machines behave . We then use a branch of mathematics called control theory to analyze these models and also to synthesize algorithms for controlling them . For example , that 's how we can make the quad hover . We first captured the dynamics with a set of differential equations . We then manipulate these equations with the help of control theory to create algorithms that stabilize the quad . Let me demonstrate the strength of this approach . Suppose that we want this quad to not only hover but to also balance this pole . With a little bit of practice , it 's pretty straightforward for a human being to do this , although we do have the advantage of having two feet on the ground and the use of our very versatile hands . It becomes a little bit more difficult when I only have one foot on the ground and when I do n't use my hands . Notice how this pole has a reflective marker on top , which means that it can be located in the space . ( Audience ) Oh ! ( Applause ) ( Applause ends ) You can notice that this quad is making fine adjustments to keep the pole balanced . How did we design the algorithms to do this ? We added the mathematical model of the pole to that of the quad . Once we have a model of the combined quad-pole system , we can use control theory to create algorithms for controlling it . Here , you see that it 's stable , and even if I give it little nudges , it goes back -- to the nice , balanced position . We can also augment the model to include where we want the quad to be in space . Using this pointer , made out of reflective markers , I can point to where I want the quad to be in space a fixed distance away from me . ( Laughter ) The key to these acrobatic maneuvers is algorithms , designed with the help of mathematical models and control theory . Let 's tell the quad to come back here and let the pole drop , and I will next demonstrate the importance of understanding physical models and the workings of the physical world . ( Applause ) ( Applause ends ) Okay , you should be asking yourself , why does n't the water fall out of the glass ? Two facts . ( Audience ) Oh ! ( Applause ) ( Applause ends ) The lesson here is that some high-performance tasks are easier than others , and that understanding the physics of the problem tells you which ones are easy and which ones are hard . We 've all heard stories of athletes performing feats while physically injured . ( Audience ) Oh ! ( Laughter ) If we analyze the mathematical model of this machine with only two working propellers , we discover that there 's an unconventional way to fly it . We ca n't help but hold our breath when we watch a diver somersaulting into the water , or when a vaulter is twisting in the air , the ground fast approaching . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Striking a moving ball is a necessary skill in many sports . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) ( Applause ends ) This quad has a racket strapped onto its head with a sweet spot roughly the size of an apple , so not too large . ( Applause ) Machines can not only perform dynamic maneuvers on their own , they can do it collectively . ( Applause ) ( Applause ends ) They perform an extremely dynamic and collective maneuver to launch the ball back to me . ( Applause ) In fact , when fully extended , this is roughly five times greater than what a bungee jumper feels at the end of their launch . The algorithms to do this are very similar to what the single quad used to hit the ball back to me . Everything we have seen so far has been about the machines and their capabilities . ( Applause ) Interaction does n't have to be virtual . We now have an intimate way of interacting with a machine . So we can physically interact with these quads and we can change the laws of physics . ( Laughter ) ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Whew ! You 're all thinking now , these guys are having way too much fun , and you 're probably also asking yourself , why exactly are they building machine athletes ? Some conjecture that the role of play in the animal kingdom is to hone skills and develop capabilities . Let me introduce you to the wizards behind the green curtain . ( Applause ) Federico Augugliaro , Dario Brescianini , Markus Hehn , Sergei Lupashin , Mark Muller and Robin Ritz . Thank you . ( Applause ) 