( Breathes in ) ( Breathes out ) So , I did n't always make my living from music . For about the five years after graduating from an upstanding liberal arts university , this was my day job . ( Laughter ) I was a self-employed living statue called the Eight-Foot Bride , and I love telling people I did this for a job , because everybody always wants to know , who are these freaks in real life . ( Laughter ) Hello . I painted myself white one day , stood on a box , put a hat or a can at my feet , and when someone came by and dropped in money , I handed them a flower -- and some intense eye contact . ( Laughter ) So I had the most profound encounters with people , especially lonely people who looked like they had n't talked to anyone in weeks , and we would get this beautiful moment of prolonged eye contact being allowed in a city street , and we would sort of fall in love a little bit . I would get harassed sometimes . And meanwhile , I was touring locally and playing in nightclubs with my band , the Dresden Dolls . And then Twitter came along , and made things even more magic , because I could ask instantly for anything anywhere . And I love this kind of random closeness , which is lucky , because I do a lot of couchsurfing . ( Laughter ) My crew once pulled our van up to a really poor Miami neighborhood and we found out that our couchsurfing host for the night was an 18-year-old girl , still living at home , and her family were all undocumented immigrants from Honduras . A couple of months later , I was in Manhattan , and I tweeted for a crash pad , and at midnight , I 'm on the Lower East Side , and it occurs to me I 've never actually done this alone . ( Laughter ) Is this how stupid people die ? And before I can change my mind , the door busts open . So I couchsurf a lot . And meanwhile , my band is becoming bigger and bigger . ( Laughter ) We sign , and there 's all this hype leading up to our next record . I was like , `` 25,000 , is n't that a lot ? '' They said , `` No , the sales are going down . Right at this same time , I 'm signing and hugging after a gig , and a guy comes up to me and hands me a $ 10 bill , and he says , `` I 'm sorry , I burned your CD from a friend . ( Laughter ) `` But I read your blog , I know you hate your label . And this starts happening all the time . And this is the moment I decide I 'm just going to give away my music for free online whenever possible , so it 's like Metallica over here , Napster , bad ; Amanda Palmer over here , and I 'm going to encourage torrenting , downloading , sharing , but I 'm going to ask for help , because I saw it work on the street . ( Applause ) And you can see how many people it is . And the media asked , `` Amanda , the music business is tanking and you encourage piracy . And I got a lot of criticism online , after my Kickstarter went big , for continuing my crazy crowdsourcing practices , specifically for asking musicians who are fans if they wanted to join us on stage for a few songs in exchange for love and tickets and beer , and this was a doctored image that went up of me on a website . So this is slightly not safe for work . ( Laughter ) I recommend this , especially if those strangers are drunk German people . ( Laughter ) This was a ninja master-level fan connection , because what I was really saying here was , I trust you this much . For most of human history , musicians , artists , they 've been part of the community . My music career has been spent trying to encounter people on the Internet the way I could on the box . I think people have been obsessed with the wrong question , which is , `` How do we make people pay for music ? '' What if we started asking , `` How do we let people pay for music ? '' Thank you . ( Applause ) 