My name is Jonathan Zittrain , and in my recent work I 've been a bit of a pessimist . So I thought this morning I would try to be the optimist , and give reason to hope for the future of the Internet by drawing upon its present . Now , it may seem like there is less hope today than there was before . People are less kind . There is less trust around . I do n't know . As a simple example , we could run a test here . How many people have ever hitchhiked ? I know . How many people have hitchhiked within the past 10 years ? Right . So what has changed ? It 's not better public transportation . So that 's one reason to think that we might be declensionists , going in the wrong direction . But I want to give you three examples to try to say that the trend line is in fact in the other direction , and it 's the Internet helping it along . So example number one : the Internet itself . These are three of the founders of the Internet . They were actually high school classmates together at the same high school in suburban Los Angles in the 1960s . You might have had a French club or a Debate club . They had a `` Let 's build a global network '' club , and it worked out very well . They are pictured here for their 25th anniversary Newsweek retrospective on the Internet . And as you can tell , they are basically goof balls . They had one great limitation and one great freedom as they tried to conceive of a global network . The limitation was that they did n't have any money . No particular amount of capital to invest , of the sort that for a physical network you might need for trucks and people and a hub to move packages around overnight . They had none of that . But they had an amazing freedom , which was they did n't have to make any money from it . The Internet has no business plan , never did . No CEO , no firm responsible , singly , for building it . Instead , it 's folks getting together to do something for fun , rather than because they were told to , or because they were expecting to make a mint off of it . That ethos led to a network architecture , a structure that was unlike other digital networks then or since . So unusual , in fact , that it was said that it 's not clear the Internet could work . As late as 1992 , IBM was known to say you could n't possibly build a corporate network using Internet Protocol . And even some Internet engineers today say the whole thing is a pilot project and the jury is still out . ( Laughter ) That 's why the mascot of Internet engineering , if it had one , is said to be the bumblebee . So what is this bizarre architecture configuration that makes the network sing and be so unusual ? Well , to move data around from one place to another -- again , it 's not like a package courier . No one pays you to do this . Now , of course , in a mosh pit it 's hard to specify a destination . This is how Internet addressing and routing actually work . So , for example , last year , the government of Pakistan asked its Internet service providers there to prevent citizens of Pakistan from seeing YouTube . Well this one ISP in Pakistan chose to effectuate the block for its subscribers in a rather unusual way . But it did n't stop there . Now just think about that . Well , for a big clue , we turn to NANOG . So it 's kind of like if your house catches on fire . Example number two : Wikipedia . Jimbo 's idea was for Nupedia . And today , Wikipedia is so ubiquitous that you can now find it on Chinese restaurant menus . But now , Wikipedia does n't just spontaneously work . Number one : `` Tendentious editing by user Andyvphil . And that 's what keeps Wikipedia afloat . They even gather together in such groups as the Counter-Vandalism Unit -- `` Civility , Maturity , Responsibility '' -- to just clean up the pages . So what we see -- ( Laughter ) what we see in this phenomenon is something that the crazed , late traffic engineer Hans Monderman discovered in the Netherlands , and here in South Kensington , that sometimes if you remove some of the external rules and signs and everything else , you can actually end up with a safer environment in which people can function , and one in which they are more human with each other . Some of you may remember Star Wars Kid , the poor teenager who filmed himself with a golf ball retriever , acting as if it were a light saber . Now , it being encyclopedic and all , Wikipedia had to do an article about Star Wars Kid . And to this day , the page for Star Wars Kid has a warning right at the top that says you are not to put his real name on the page . Now , this is n't just limited to Wikipedia . This is my favorite goofy blog : Catsthatlooklikehitler.com . But then , you can see the same kind of whimsy applied to people . And it 's one after the other . I believe we can build architectures online to make such human requests that much easier to do , to make it possible for all of us to see that the data we encounter online is just stuff on which to click and paste and copy and forward that actually represents human emotion and endeavor and impact , and to be able to have an ethical moment where we decide how we want to treat it . I even think it can go into the real world . In the real world , we see filtering of this sort taking place in Pakistan . An NYU researcher here took little cardboard robots with smiley faces on them , and a motor that just drove them forward and a flag sticking out the back with a desired destination . That leads to example number three : hitchhiking . And then you can highlight it into something like , yes , CouchSurfing.org . Amazing how many successful couch surfings there have been . So , my urging , my thought , is that the Internet is n't just a pile of information . 