The immersive ugliness of our everyday environments in America is entropy made visible . We ca n't overestimate the amount of despair that we are generating with places like this . And mostly , I want to persuade you that we have to do better if we 're going to continue the project of civilization in America . By the way , this does n't help . Nobody 's having a better day down here because of that . There are a lot of ways you can describe this . You know , I like to call it `` the national automobile slum . '' You can call it suburban sprawl . I think it 's appropriate to call it the greatest misallocation of resources in the history of the world . You can call it a technosis externality clusterfuck . And it 's a tremendous problem for us . The outstanding -- the salient problem about this for us is that these are places that are not worth caring about . We 're going to talk about that some more . A sense of place : your ability to create places that are meaningful and places of quality and character depends entirely on your ability to define space with buildings , and to employ the vocabularies , grammars , syntaxes , rhythms and patterns of architecture in order to inform us who we are . The public realm in America has two roles : it is the dwelling place of our civilization and our civic life , and it is the physical manifestation of the common good . And when you degrade the public realm , you will automatically degrade the quality of your civic life and the character of all the enactments of your public life and communal life that take place there . The public realm comes mostly in the form of the street in America because we do n't have the 1,000-year-old cathedral plazas and market squares of older cultures . And your ability to define space and to create places that are worth caring about all comes from a body of culture that we call the culture of civic design . This is a body of knowledge , method , skill and principle that we threw in the garbage after World War II and decided we do n't need that anymore ; we 're not going to use it . And consequently , we can see the result all around us . The public realm has to inform us not only where we are geographically , but it has to inform us where we are in our culture . Where we 've come from , what kind of people we are , and it needs to , by doing that , it needs to afford us a glimpse to where we 're going in order to allow us to dwell in a hopeful present . And if there is one tremendous -- if there is one great catastrophe about the places that we 've built , the human environments we 've made for ourselves in the last 50 years , it is that it has deprived us of the ability to live in a hopeful present . The environments we are living in , more typically , are like these . You know , this happens to be the asteroid belt of architectural garbage two miles north of my town . And remember , to create a place of character and quality , you have to be able to define space . So how is that being accomplished here ? If you stand on the apron of the Wal-Mart over here and try to look at the Target store over here , you ca n't see it because of the curvature of the Earth . ( Laughter ) That 's nature 's way of telling you that you 're doing a poor job of defining space . We have about , you know , 38,000 places that are not worth caring about in the United States today . Public space . Probably the most significant public space failure in America , designed by the leading architects of the day , Harry Cobb and I.M . This is the other side of the building . This , in fact , would be a better building if we put mosaic portraits of Josef Stalin , Pol Pot , Saddam Hussein , and all the other great despots of the 20th century on the side of the building , because then we 'd honestly be saying what the building is really communicating to us . You know , this is a building designed like a DVD player . That -- that is the message of this form of architecture . The pattern of Main Street USA -- in fact , this pattern of building downtown blocks , all over the world , is fairly universal . Anyway , this is how you compose and assemble a downtown business building , and this is what happened when in Glens Falls , New York , when we tried to do it again , where it was missing , right ? So the first thing they do is they pop up the retail a half a story above grade to make it sporty . The street trees have really four jobs to do and that 's it : To spatially denote the pedestrian realm , to protect the pedestrians from the vehicles in the carriageway , to filter the sunlight onto the sidewalk , and to soften the hardscape of the buildings and to create a ceiling -- a vaulted ceiling -- over the street , at its best . You know , one of the problems with the fiasco of suburbia is that it destroyed our understanding of the distinction between the country and the town , between the urban and the rural . A lot of this comes from the fact that the industrial city in America was such a trauma that we developed this tremendous aversion for the whole idea of the city , city life , and everything connected with it . But what happens is , of course , it mutates over the next 80 years and it turns into something rather insidious . And these are typically the kind of dwellings we find there , you know . But we know what 's going on in these houses , you know . We 're going to have to change this behavior whether we like it or not . And we should have started two days before yesterday . So that , you know , the residences make sense deployed in relation to the places of business , of culture and of governance . Some of them we 're going to fix , though . We 've got a lot of work to do . One final thing -- I 've been very disturbed about this for years , but I think it 's particularly important for this audience . 