Growth is not dead . ( Applause ) Let 's start the story 120 years ago , when American factories began to electrify their operations , igniting the Second Industrial Revolution . The amazing thing is that productivity did not increase in those factories for 30 years . Thirty years . That 's long enough for a generation of managers to retire . You see , the first wave of managers simply replaced their steam engines with electric motors , but they did n't redesign the factories to take advantage of electricity 's flexibility . It fell to the next generation to invent new work processes , and then productivity soared , often doubling or even tripling in those factories . Electricity is an example of a general purpose technology , like the steam engine before it . General purpose technologies drive most economic growth , because they unleash cascades of complementary innovations , like lightbulbs and , yes , factory redesign . Is there a general purpose technology of our era ? Sure . It 's the computer . But technology alone is not enough . Technology is not destiny . We shape our destiny , and just as the earlier generations of managers needed to redesign their factories , we 're going to need to reinvent our organizations and even our whole economic system . We 're not doing as well at that job as we should be . As we 'll see in a moment , productivity is actually doing all right , but it has become decoupled from jobs , and the income of the typical worker is stagnating . These troubles are sometimes misdiagnosed as the end of innovation , but they are actually the growing pains of what Andrew McAfee and I call the new machine age . Let 's look at some data . So here 's GDP per person in America . There 's some bumps along the way , but the big story is you could practically fit a ruler to it . This is a log scale , so what looks like steady growth is actually an acceleration in real terms . And here 's productivity . You can see a little bit of a slowdown there in the mid-'70s , but it matches up pretty well with the Second Industrial Revolution , when factories were learning how to electrify their operations . After a lag , productivity accelerated again . So maybe `` history does n't repeat itself , but sometimes it rhymes . '' Today , productivity is at an all-time high , and despite the Great Recession , it grew faster in the 2000s than it did in the 1990s , the roaring 1990s , and that was faster than the '70s or '80s . It 's growing faster than it did during the Second Industrial Revolution . And that 's just the United States . The global news is even better . Worldwide incomes have grown at a faster rate in the past decade than ever in history . If anything , all these numbers actually understate our progress , because the new machine age is more about knowledge creation than just physical production . It 's mind not matter , brain not brawn , ideas not things . That creates a problem for standard metrics , because we 're getting more and more stuff for free , like Wikipedia , Google , Skype , and if they post it on the web , even this TED Talk . Now getting stuff for free is a good thing , right ? Sure , of course it is . But that 's not how economists measure GDP . Zero price means zero weight in the GDP statistics . According to the numbers , the music industry is half the size that it was 10 years ago , but I 'm listening to more and better music than ever . You know , I bet you are too . In total , my research estimates that the GDP numbers miss over 300 billion dollars per year in free goods and services on the Internet . Now let 's look to the future . There are some super smart people who are arguing that we 've reached the end of growth , but to understand the future of growth , we need to make predictions about the underlying drivers of growth . I 'm optimistic , because the new machine age is digital , exponential and combinatorial . When goods are digital , they can be replicated with perfect quality at nearly zero cost , and they can be delivered almost instantaneously . Welcome to the economics of abundance . But there 's a subtler benefit to the digitization of the world . Measurement is the lifeblood of science and progress . In the age of big data , we can measure the world in ways we never could before . Secondly , the new machine age is exponential . Computers get better faster than anything else ever . A child 's Playstation today is more powerful than a military supercomputer from 1996 . But our brains are wired for a linear world . As a result , exponential trends take us by surprise . I used to teach my students that there are some things , you know , computers just are n't good at , like driving a car through traffic . ( Laughter ) That 's right , here 's Andy and me grinning like madmen because we just rode down Route 101 in , yes , a driverless car . Thirdly , the new machine age is combinatorial . Now individually , digital , exponential and combinatorial would each be game-changers . ( Laughter ) But perhaps the most important invention , the most important invention is machine learning . But you know , Watson is growing up fast . So does that mean we have nothing to worry about ? No . You know , I recently overheard a conversation that epitomizes these new economics . What can we do to create shared prosperity ? The answer is not to try to slow down technology . The new machine age can be dated to a day 15 years ago when Garry Kasparov , the world chess champion , played Deep Blue , a supercomputer . ( Laughter ) But today a computer is no longer the world chess champion . Thank you . ( Applause ) 