This is a recent comic strip from the Los Angeles Times . The punch line ? `` On the other hand , I do n't have to get up at four every single morning to milk my Labrador . '' This is a recent cover of New York Magazine . Best hospitals where doctors say they would go for cancer treatment , births , strokes , heart disease , hip replacements , 4 a.m. emergencies . And this is a song medley I put together -- ( Music ) Did you ever notice that four in the morning has become some sort of meme or shorthand ? It means something like you are awake at the worst possible hour . ( Laughter ) A time for inconveniences , mishaps , yearnings . ( Laughter ) A time for even grimmer stuff than that , like autopsies and embalmings in Isabel Allende 's `` The House of the Spirits . A time for even grimmer stuff than that , like in last April 's New Yorker magazine . ( Laughter ) across a lot of different media from a lot of big names . ( Laughter ) 1932 . It works a little something like -- this is a recent Google search for four in the morning . Well , let 's start with Faron Young -- who was born incidentally in 1932 . ( Laughter ) In 1996 , he shot himself in the head on December ninth -- which incidentally is Judi Dench 's birthday . ( Laughter ) But he did n't die on Dench 's birthday . Where was Wislawa Szymborska during all this ? She has the world 's most absolutely watertight alibi . ( Laughter ) Coincidence to me has a much simpler metric . ( Laughter ) Video : Homer Simpson : We have a tennis court , a swimming pool , a screening room -- You mean if I want pork chops , even in the middle of the night , your guy will fry them up ? Herbert Powell : Sure , that 's what he 's paid for . HS : Wait , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait -- let me see if I got this straight . Marge Simpson : Homer , please . Rives : Wait , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait . ( Laughter ) When Homer Simpson needs to imagine the most remote possible moment of not just the clock , but the whole freaking calendar , he comes up with 0400 on the birthday of the Baby Jesus . ( Laughter ) I said , I know a coded message when I see one . Sure you were , because you 've prepared your entire life for this historic quadrennial event that just sort of sneaks up on you . ( Laughter ) three paragraphs later we get this little beauty : `` We went back to Blair House to look at the speech for the last time . ( Laughter ) It could get awkward , right ? I mean after all , this whole business happened on his watch . ( Laughter ) he might remind us , as he does in the wrap-up to his fine autobiography , that on this day Bill Clinton began a journey -- a journey that saw him go on to become the first Democrat president elected to two consecutive terms in decades . the year Alberto Giacometti ( Laughter ) made `` The Palace at Four in the Morning . ( Music ) ( Applause ) 