When I was about 16 years old I can remember flipping through channels at home during summer vacation , looking for a movie to watch on HBO -- and how many of you remember `` Ferris Bueller 's Day Off '' ? Oh yeah , great movie , right ? -- Well , I saw Matthew Broderick on the screen , and so I thought , `` Sweet ! Ferris Bueller . I 'll watch this ! '' It was n't Ferris Bueller . And forgive me Matthew Broderick , I know you 've done other movies besides Ferris Bueller , but that 's how I remember you ; you 're Ferris . But you were n't doing Ferris-y things at the time ; you were doing gay things at the time . He was in a movie called `` Torch Song Trilogy . '' And `` Torch Song Trilogy '' was based on a play about this drag queen who essentially was looking for love . Love and respect -- that 's what the whole film was about . And as I 'm watching it , I 'm realizing that they 're talking about me . Not the drag queen part -- I am not shaving my hair for anyone -- but the gay part . The finding love and respect , the part about trying to find your place in the world . So as I 'm watching this , I see this powerful scene that brought me to tears , and it stuck with me for the past 25 years . And there 's this quote that the main character , Arnold , tells his mother as they 're fighting about who he is and the life that he lives . `` There 's one thing more -- there 's just one more thing you better understand . I 've taught myself to sew , cook , fix plumbing , build furniture , I can even pat myself on the back when necessary , all so I do n't have to ask anyone for anything . There 's nothing I need from anyone except for love and respect , and anyone who ca n't give me those two things has no place in my life . '' I remember that scene like it was yesterday ; I was 16 , I was in tears , I was in the closet , and I 'm looking at these two people , Ferris Bueller and some guy I 'd never seen before , fighting for love . When I finally got to a place in my life where I came out and accepted who I was , and was really quite happy , to tell you the truth , I was happily gay and I guess that 's supposed to be right because gay means happy too . I realized there were a lot of people who were n't as gay as I was -- gay being happy , not gay being attracted to the same sex . In fact , I heard that there was a lot of hate and a lot of anger and a lot of frustration and a lot of fear about who I was and the gay lifestyle . Now , I 'm sitting here trying to figure out `` the gay lifestyle , '' `` the gay lifestyle , '' and I keep hearing this word over and over and over again : lifestyle , lifestyle , lifestyle . I 've even heard politicians say that the gay lifestyle is a greater threat to civilization than terrorism . That 's when I got scared . Because I 'm thinking , if I 'm gay and I 'm doing something that 's going to destroy civilization , I need to figure out what this stuff is , and I need to stop doing it right now . ( Laughter ) So , I took a look at my life , a hard look at my life , and I saw some things very disturbing . I look around , and I go , `` My God , look at all these gay people ! We 're all trapped in these lines ! These long lines trying to get on an airplane ! My God , this lifestyle that I 'm living is so freaking evil ! '' I clean up . And after I 'm done cooking and cleaning and standing in line and getting stuck in traffic , my partner and I , we get together and we decide that we 're gon na go and have some wild and crazy fun . When my partner , Steve , and I first started dating , he told me this story about penguins . And he says , `` I want to spend the rest of my life with you . So I wear this whenever I have to do something that makes me a little nervous , like , I do n't know , a TEDx talk . How many people out there are in love ? Anyone in love out there ? You might be gay . It 's really quite silly , is n't it ? That 's why I 'm so happy to finally hear President Obama come out and say ( Applause ) that he supports -- ( Applause ) that he supports marriage equality . But there 's something that 's been disturbing me since he made that remark just a short time ago . But then something wonderful happened : I was out shopping , as I tend to do , and I came across a bootleg copy of the official gay agenda . And I said to myself , `` LZ , for so long , you have been denied this . So , without further ado , I will present to you , ladies and gentlemen -- now be careful , 'cause it 's evil -- a copy , the official copy , of the gay agenda . Some of you may be calling it , what , the Constitution of the United States , is that what you call it too ? The U.S. Constitution is the gay agenda . Did you know that in all the states where there is no shading that people who are gay , lesbian , bisexual or transgendered can be kicked out of their apartments for being gay , lesbian , bisexual or transgendered ? That 's the only reason that a landlord needs to have them removed , because there 's no protection from discrimination of GLBT people . `` No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States . I 'm looking at you , North Carolina . That is the reason why I felt it was imperative that I presented you with this copy of the gay agenda . If I could brag for a second , I have a 15-year-old son from my marriage . This story just keeps playing over and over and over again in our country 's history . And so here we are , 2012 , gay agenda , gay lifestyle , and I 'm not a good dad and people do n't deserve to be able to protect their families because of what they are , not who they are . 