This is Charley Williams . He was 94 when this photograph was taken . In the 1930s , Roosevelt put thousands and thousands of Americans back to work by building bridges and infrastructure and tunnels , but he also did something interesting , which was to hire a few hundred writers to scour America to capture the stories of ordinary Americans . Charley Williams , a poor sharecropper , would n't ordinarily be the subject of a big interview , but Charley had actually been a slave until he was 22 years old . And the stories that were captured of his life make up one of the crown jewels of histories , of human-lived experiences filled with ex-slaves . Anna Deavere Smith famously said that there 's a literature inside of each of us , and three generations later , I was part of a project called StoryCorps , which set out to capture the stories of ordinary Americans by setting up a soundproof booth in public spaces . The idea is very , very simple . You go into these booths , you interview your grandmother or relative , you leave with a copy of the interview and an interview goes into the Library of Congress . It 's essentially a way to make a national oral histories archive one conversation at a time . And the question is , who do you want to remember -- if you had just 45 minutes with your grandmother ? What 's interesting , in conversations with the founder , Dave Isay , we always actually talked about this as a little bit of a subversive project , because when you think about it , it 's actually not really about the stories that are being told , it 's about listening , and it 's about the questions that you get to ask , questions that you may not have permission to on any other day . I 'm going to play you just a couple of quick excerpts from the project . [ Jesus Melendez talking about poet Pedro Pietri 's final moments ] Jesus Melendez : We took off , and as we were ascending , before we had leveled off , our level-off point was 45,000 feet , so before we had leveled off , Pedro began leaving us , and the beauty about it is that I believe that there 's something after life . You can see it in Pedro . [ Danny Perasa to his wife Annie Perasa married 26 years ] Danny Perasa : See , the thing of it is , I always feel guilty when I say `` I love you '' to you , and I say it so often . I say it to remind you that as dumpy as I am , it 's coming from me , it 's like hearing a beautiful song from a busted old radio , and it 's nice of you to keep the radio around the house . ( Laughter ) [ Michael Wolmetz with his girlfriend Debora Brakarz ] Michael Wolmetz : So this is the ring that my father gave to my mother , and we can leave it there . Jake Barton : So I have to say I did not actually choose those individual samples to make you cry because they all make you cry . Our latest engagement is the Cleveland Museum of Art , which we 've created an engagement called Gallery One for . Glenn Lowry , the head of MoMA , put it best when he said , `` We want visitors to actually cease being visitors . And so what we 're doing is making a broad array of different ways for people to actually engage with the material inside of these galleries , so you can still have a traditional gallery experience , but if you 're interested , you can actually engage with any individual artwork and see the original context from where it 's from , or manipulate the work itself . And so our next interface , which I 'll show you , actually leverages that idea of this lineage of creativity . So in this wall , the collections wall , you can actually see all 3,000 artworks all at the same time , and you can actually author your own individual walking tours of the museum , so you can share them , and someone can take a tour with the museum director or a tour with their little cousin . But all the while that we 've been working on this engagement for Cleveland , we 've also been working in the background on really our largest engagement to date , and that 's the 9/11 Memorial and Museum . So we started in 2006 as part of a team with Thinc Design to create the original master plan for the museum , and then we 've done all the media design both for the museum and the memorial and then the media production . And so what we started with was really a new way of thinking about building an institution , through a project called Make History , which we launched in 2009 . This image in particular really captured our attention at the time , because it so much sums up that event . And it really made us recognize what this institution needed to be in order to actually tell that story . And so we started imagining the museum , along with the creative team at the museum and the curators , thinking about how the first voice that you would hear inside the museum would actually be of other visitors . ( Video ) Voice 1 : I was in Honolulu , Hawaii . Voice 3 : Sur les Champs-Élysées , à Paris . Voice 5 : I was in Times Square . ( Multiple voices ) Voice 7 : It was probably about 11 o'clock at night . Voice 8 : I was driving to work at 5:45 local time in the morning . Voice 9 : We were actually in a meeting when someone barged in and said , `` Oh my God , a plane has just crashed into the World Trade Center . Voice 10 : Trying to frantically get to a radio . Voice 11 : When I heard it over the radio -- Voice 12 : Heard it on the radio . ( Multiple voices ) Voice 13 : I got a call from my father . Voice 15 : So I switched on the television . Voice 16 : All channels in Italy were displaying the same thing . Voice 17 : The Twin Towers . JB : And you move from there into that open , cavernous space . And as you leave that storytelling moment understanding about 9/11 , we then turn the museum back into a moment of listening and actually talk to the individual visitors and ask them their own experiences about 9/11 . And so these oral histories , which we 've actually been capturing already for years , are then mixed together with interviews that we 're doing with people like Donald Rumsfeld , Bill Clinton , Rudy Giuliani , and you mix together these different players and these different experiences , these different reflection points about 9/11 . ( Video ) Voice 1 : 9/11 was not just a New York experience . Voice 2 : It 's something that we shared , and it 's something that united us . Voice 3 : And I knew when I saw that , people who were there that day who immediately went to help people known and unknown to them was something that would pull us through . Voice 4 : All the outpouring of affection and emotion that came from our country was something really that will forever , ever stay with me . Voice 5 : Still today I pray and think about those who lost their lives , and those who gave their lives to help others , but I 'm also reminded of the fabric of this country , the love , the compassIon , the strength , and I watched a nation come together in the middle of a terrible tragedy . JB : And so as people make their way out of the museum , reflecting on the experience , reflecting on their own thoughts of it , they then move into the actual space of the memorial itself , because they 've gone back up to grade , and we actually got involved in the memorial after we 'd done the museum for a few years . Three generations ago , we had to actually get people to go out and capture the stories for common people . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 