Thank you . I have only got 18 minutes to explain something that lasts for hours and days , so I 'd better get started . Let 's start with a clip from Al Jazeera 's Listening Post . Richard Gizbert : Norway is a country that gets relatively little media coverage . Even the elections this past week passed without much drama . And that 's the Norwegian media in a nutshell : not much drama . A few years back , Norway 's public TV channel NRK decided to broadcast live coverage of a seven-hour train ride -- seven hours of simple footage , a train rolling down the tracks . Norwegians , more than a million of them according to the ratings , loved it . A new kind of reality TV show was born , and it goes against all the rules of TV engagement . There is no story line , no script , no drama , no climax , and it 's called Slow TV . For the past two months , Norwegians have been watching a cruise ship 's journey up the coast , and there 's a lot of fog on that coast . Executives at Norway 's National Broadcasting Service are now considering broadcasting a night of knitting nationwide . On the surface , it sounds boring , because it is , but something about this TV experiment has gripped Norwegians . So we sent the Listening Post 's Marcela Pizarro to Oslo to find out what it is , but first a warning : Viewers may find some of the images in the following report disappointing . ( Laughter ) Thomas Hellum : And then follows an eight-minute story on Al Jazeera about some strange TV programs in little Norway . So one of us came up with a train . Luckily for us , they met us with laughter , very , very good laughter , so one bright day in September , we started a program that we thought should be seven hours and four minutes . So that 's strong and living TV . We wanted to do something different . So this is not the first time NRK had been on board a ship . I have some really strong memories from that week , and it 's all about people . How did we do this ? Yes , we took a conference room on board the Hurtigruten . ( Video ) Narrator [ in Norwegian ] : Run it up and down . TH : Another camera is this one . It was also a great success on social media . But it 's a long program , so some watched part of it , like the Prime Minister . So we were allowed to be part of people 's living room with this strange TV program , with music , nature , people . So our next project got us some attention outside Norway . ( Video ) Stephen Colbert : I 've got my eye on a wildly popular program from Norway called `` National Firewood Night , '' which consisted of mostly people in parkas chatting and chopping in the woods , and then eight hours of a fire burning in a fireplace . TH : So , when wood fire and wood chopping can be that interesting , why not knitting ? So on our next project , we used more than eight hours to go live from a sheep to a sweater , and Jimmy Kimmel in the ABC show , he liked that . ( Music ) ( Video ) Jimmy Kimmel : Even the people on the show are falling asleep , and after all that , the knitters actually failed to break the world record . TH : Exactly . So you have to let the viewers make the stories themselves , and I 'll give you an example of that . So we think that Slow TV is one nice way of telling a TV story , and we think that we can continue doing it , not too often , once or twice a year , so we keep the feeling of an event , and we also think that the good Slow TV idea , that 's the idea when people say , `` Oh no , you ca n't put that on TV . Thank you . ( Applause ) 