Okay , this morning I 'm speaking on the question of corruption . And corruption is defined as the abuse of a position of trust for the benefit of yourself -- or , in the case of our context , your friends , your family or your financiers . Okay ? Friends , family and financiers . But we need to understand what we understand about corruption , and we need to understand that we have been miseducated about it , and we have to admit that . We have to have the courage to admit that to start changing how we deal with it . The first thing is that the big myth , number one , is that in fact it 's not really a crime . When we get together with friends and family and we discuss crime in our country , crime in Belmont or crime in Diego or crime in Marabella , nobody 's speaking about corruption . That 's the honest truth . When the Commissioner of Police comes on TV to talk about crime , he is n't speaking about corruption . And we know for sure when the Minister of National Security is speaking about crime , he 's not talking about corruption either . The point I 'm making is that it is a crime . It is an economic crime , because we 're involving the looting of taxpayers ' money . Public and private corruption is a reality . As somebody who comes from the private sector , I can tell you there 's a massive amount of corruption in the private sector that has nothing to do with government . The same bribes and backhanders and things that take place under the table , it all takes place in the private sector . Today , I 'm focusing on public sector corruption , which the private sector also participates in . The second important myth to understand -- because we have to destroy these myths , dismantle them and destroy them and ridicule them -- the second important myth to understand is the one that says that in fact corruption is only a small problem -- if it is a problem , it 's only a small problem , that in fact it 's only a little 10 or 15 percent , it 's been going on forever , it probably will continue forever , and there 's no point passing any laws , because there 's little we can do about it . And I want to demonstrate that that , too , is a dangerous myth , very dangerous . It 's a piece of public mischief . And I want to speak a little bit , take us back about 30 years . We 're coming out today from Trinidad and Tobago , a resource-rich , small Caribbean country , and in the early 1970s we had a massive increase in the country 's wealth , and that increase was caused by the increase in world oil prices . We call them petrodollars . The treasury was bursting with money . And it 's ironic , because we 're standing today in the Central Bank . You see , history 's rich in irony . We 're standing today in the Central Bank , and the Central Bank is responsible for a lot of the things I 'm going to be speaking about . Okay ? We 're talking about irresponsibility in public office . We 're speaking about the fact that across the terrace , the next tower is the Ministry of Finance , and there 's a lot of connection with us today , so we 're speaking within your temple today . Okay ? ( Applause ) The first thing I want to talk about is that when all of this money flowed into our country about 40 years ago , we embarked , the government of the day embarked on a series of government-to-government arrangements to have rapidly develop the country . And some of the largest projects in the country were being constructed through government-to-government arrangements with some of the leading countries in the world , the United States and Britain and France and so on and so on . As I said , even this building we 're standing in -- that 's one of the ironies -- this building was part of that series of complexes , what they called the Twin Towers . It became so outrageous , the whole situation , that in fact a commission of inquiry was appointed , and it reported in 1982 , 30 years ago it reported -- the Ballah Report -- 30 years ago , and immediately the government-to-government arrangements were stopped . The then-Prime Minister went to Parliament to give a budget speech , and he said some things that I 'll never forget . They went right in here . I was a young man at the time . It went right into my heart . And he said that , in fact — Let me see if this thing works . Are we getting a , yeah ? — That 's what he told us . He told us that , in fact , two out of every three dollars of our petrodollars that we spent , the taxpayers ' money , was wasted or stolen . So the 10 or 15 percent is pure mischief . As we say , it 's a nancy-story . Forget it . That 's for little children . We are big people , and we 're trying to deal with what 's happening in our society . Okay ? This is the size of the problem . Okay ? Two thirds of the money stolen or wasted . That was 30 years ago . 1982 was Ballah . So what has changed ? I do n't like to bring up embarrassing secrets to an international audience , but I have to . Four months ago , we suffered a constitutional outrage in this country . We call it the Section 34 fiasco , the Section 34 fiasco , a suspicious piece of law , and I 'm going to say it like it is , a suspicious piece of law was passed at a suspicious time to free some suspects . ( Laughter ) And it was called , those people are called the Piarco Airport accused . But what were they accused of ? What was it that they were accused of ? I 'm being a bit mysterious for those of you out there . Being the kind of suspicious person I am , I am outraged at that , and I 'm going to pause here , I 'm going to pause now and again and bring in different things . My brain started thinking . But I 'm going to segue to another thing that relates , because one of my private campaigns I 've been conducting for over three and a half years is for transparency and accountability around the bailout of CL Financial . So I started digging and writing and so and so on , and that work can be found , my personal work can be found at AfraRaymond.com , which is my name . And I made a Freedom of Information application in May this year to the Ministry of Finance . So I plunged into this struggle , and I asked four questions . Question number one : I asked to see the accounts of CL Financial , and if you ca n't show me the accounts -- the Minister of Finance is making statements , passing new laws and giving speeches and so on . Second point : I want to see who are the creditors of the group who have been repaid ? Let me pause here to point out to you all that 24 billion dollars of our money has been spent on this . And I want to pause again to bring up context , because context helps us to get clarity understanding this thing . The third thing I will tell you is that I also asked for the directors of CL Financial , whether in fact they were making filings under our Integrity in Public Life Act . The sort of thing that motivated us around Section 34 , we need to continue to work on that . And this is my reality check . I 'm going to continue the work to press on , to get some resolution of those matters at the Ministry of Finance . But I want to step back from the Trinidad and Tobago context and bring something new to the table in terms of an international example . The final thing I want to say is in relation to this one , which is a lovely website from India called IPaidABribe.com . I 'm going to pause there . 