On March 10 , 2011 , I was in Cambridge at the MIT Media Lab meeting with faculty , students and staff , and we were trying to figure out whether I should be the next director . That night , at midnight , a magnitude 9 earthquake hit off of the Pacific coast of Japan . My wife and family were in Japan , and as the news started to come in , I was panicking . I was looking at the news streams and listening to the press conferences of the government officials and the Tokyo Power Company , and hearing about this explosion at the nuclear reactors and this cloud of fallout that was headed towards our house which was only about 200 kilometers away . And the people on TV were n't telling us anything that we wanted to hear . I wanted to know what was going on with the reactor , what was going on with the radiation , whether my family was in danger . So I did what instinctively felt like the right thing , which was to go onto the Internet and try to figure out if I could take matters into my own hands . On the Net , I found there were a lot of other people like me trying to figure out what was going on , and together we sort of loosely formed a group and we called it Safecast , and we decided we were going to try to measure the radiation and get the data out to everybody else , because it was clear that the government was n't going to be doing this for us . Three years later , we have 16 million data points , we have designed our own Geiger counters that you can download the designs and plug it into the network . We have an app that shows you most of the radiation in Japan and other parts of the world . We are arguably one of the most successful citizen science projects in the world , and we have created the largest open dataset of radiation measurements . And the interesting thing here is how did — ( Applause ) — Thank you . How did a bunch of amateurs who really did n't know what we were doing somehow come together and do what NGOs and the government were completely incapable of doing ? And I would suggest that this has something to do with the Internet . It 's not a fluke . It was n't luck , and it was n't because it was us . It helped that it was an event that pulled everybody together , but it was a new way of doing things that was enabled by the Internet and a lot of the other things that were going on , and I want to talk a little bit about what those new principles are . So remember before the Internet ? ( Laughter ) I call this B.I . Before the Internet , if you remember , when we tried to create services , what you would do is you 'd create the hardware layer and the network layer and the software and it would cost millions of dollars to do anything that was substantial . So at the Media Lab , we do n't just do hardware . So last year , we sent a bunch of students to Shenzhen , and they sat on the factory floors with the innovators in Shenzhen , and it was amazing . And so what you see is that is pushing innovation to the edges . Sorona is a DuPont process that uses a genetically engineered microbe to turn corn sugar into polyester . So it 's happening in software and in hardware and bioengineering , and so this is a fundamental new way of thinking about innovation . So in the case of the Safecast story , I did n't know anything when the earthquake happened , but I was able to find Sean who was the hackerspace community organizer , and Peter , the analog hardware hacker who made our first Geiger counter , and Dan , who built the Three Mile Island monitoring system after the Three Mile Island meltdown . I 'm a three-time college dropout , so learning over education is very near and dear to my heart , but to me , education is what people do to you and learning is what you do to yourself . ( Applause ) And it feels like , and I 'm biased , it feels like they 're trying to make you memorize the whole encyclopedia before they let you go out and play , and to me , I 've got Wikipedia on my cell phone , and it feels like they assume you 're going to be on top of some mountain all by yourself with a number 2 pencil trying to figure out what to do when in fact you 're always going to be connected , you 're always going to have friends , and you can pull Wikipedia up whenever you need it , and what you need to learn is how to learn . Compass over maps . So I think the good news is that even though the world is extremely complex , what you need to do is very simple . So I do n't like the word `` futurist . Thank you . ( Applause ) 