In two weeks time , that 's the ninth anniversary of the day I first stepped out onto that hallowed `` Jeopardy '' set . I mean , nine years is a long time . And given `` Jeopardy 's '' average demographics , I think what that means is most of the people who saw me on that show are now dead . ( Laughter ) But not all , a few are still alive . And I ca n't complain about this . And I loved game shows , fascinated with game shows . I was always that kind of obsessed trivia kid . I never had a guidance counselor who thought this was a legitimate career path , that thought you could major in trivia or be a professional ex-game show contestant . And it made it doubly ironic -- my computer background -- a few years later , I think 2009 or so , when I got another phone call from `` Jeopardy '' saying , `` It 's early days yet , but IBM tells us they want to build a supercomputer to beat you at 'Jeopardy . The third reason I said yes is because I was pretty confident that I was going to win . But as the years went on , as IBM started throwing money and manpower and processor speed at this , I started to get occasional updates from them , and I started to get a little more worried . And when the game eventually happened about a year later , it was very different than the `` Jeopardy '' games I 'd been used to . So me and the other human player wound up at this secret IBM research lab in the middle of these snowy woods in Westchester County to play the computer . But they were right . If you watch the news , you 'll see occasionally -- and I see this all the time -- that pharmacists now , there 's a machine that can fill prescriptions automatically without actually needing a human pharmacist . I 'm not an economist myself . The more I thought about it , I realized , no , it 's still important . The advantage of volume , first , just has to do with the complexity of the world nowadays . The other issue is the advantage of time that you have if you have all these things at your fingertips . Now when facts come in handy like that -- I love that story because it shows you the power of one fact , one remembered fact in exactly the right place at the right time -- normally something that 's easier to see on game shows than in real life . The great 18th-century British theologian and thinker , friend of Dr. Johnson , Samuel Parr once said , `` It 's always better to know a thing than not to know it . In the movies , when computers like Watson start to think , things do n't always end well . Those are the two choices we have . We can live in one of these two worlds . Thank you very much . 