I 'm going to try and explain why it is that perhaps we do n't understand as much as we think we do . I 'd like to begin with four questions . This is not some sort of cultural thing for the time of year . That 's an in-joke , by the way . But these four questions , actually , are ones that people who even know quite a lot about science find quite hard . And they 're questions that I 've asked of science television producers , of audiences of science educators -- so that 's science teachers -- and also of seven-year-olds , and I find that the seven-year-olds do marginally better than the other audiences , which is somewhat surprising . So the first question , and you might want to write this down , either on a bit of paper , physically , or a virtual piece of paper in your head . And , for viewers at home , you can try this as well . A little seed weighs next to nothing and a tree weighs a lot , right ? I think we agree on that . Where does the tree get the stuff that makes up this chair , right ? Where does all this stuff come from ? ( Knocks ) And your next question is , can you light a little torch-bulb with a battery , a bulb and one piece of wire ? And would you be able to , kind of , draw a -- you do n't have to draw the diagram , but would you be able to draw the diagram , if you had to do it ? Or would you just say , that 's actually not possible ? The third question is , why is it hotter in summer than in winter ? I think we can probably agree that it is hotter in summer than in winter , but why ? And finally , would you be able to -- and you can sort of scribble it , if you like -- scribble a plan diagram of the solar system , showing the shape of the planets ' orbits ? Would you be able to do that ? And if you can , just scribble a pattern . OK. Now , children get their ideas not from teachers , as teachers often think , but actually from common sense , from experience of the world around them , from all the things that go on between them and their peers , and their carers , and their parents , and all of that . Experience . And one of the great experts in this field , of course , was , bless him , Cardinal Wolsey . Be very careful what you get into people 's heads because it 's virtually impossible to shift it afterwards , right ? ( Laughter ) I 'm not quite sure how he died , actually . A little seed weighs a lot and , basically , all this stuff , 99 percent of this stuff , came out of the air . Second one : can you light a little torch-bulb with a battery bulb and one piece of wire ? Yes , you can , and I 'll show you in a second how to do that . As if . So , why is it hotter in summer than in winter ? We learn , as children , that you get closer to something that 's hot , and it burns you . OK , now , the scribble of the diagram of the solar system . So , here 's Copernicus ' view of what the solar system looked like as a plan . So , being I 'm in the United States , I 'll have a dig at the Europeans . So , children are not empty vessels , OK ? So , as `` Monty Python '' would have it , this is a bit Lord Privy Seal to say so , but this is -- children are not empty vessels . Your homework is -- you know , how does an aircraft 's wing create lift ? An obvious question , and you 'll have an answer now in your heads . 