About 75 years ago , my grandfather , a young man , walked into a tent that was converted into a movie theater like that , and he fell hopelessly in love with the woman he saw on the silver screen : none other than Mae West , the heartthrob of the '30s , and he could never forget her . In fact , when he had his daughter many years later , he wanted to name her after Mae West , but can you imagine an Indian child name Mae West ? The Indian family said , no way ! So when my twin brother Kaesava was born , he decided to tinker with the spelling of Keshava 's name . He said , if Mae West can be M-A-E , why ca n't Keshava be K-A-E ? So he changed Kaesava 's spelling . Now Kaesava had a baby boy called Rehan a couple of weeks ago . He decided to spell , or , rather , misspell Raehan with an A-E . You know , my grandfather died many years ago when I was little , but his love for Mae West lives on as a misspelling in the DNA of his progeny . That for me is successful legacy . ( Laughs ) You know , as for me , my wife and I have our own crazy legacy project . We actually sit every few years , argue , disagree , fight , and actually come up with our very own 200-year plan . Our friends think we 're mad . Our parents think we 're cuckoo . Because , you know , we both come from families that really look up to humility and wisdom , but we both like to live larger than life . I believe in the concept of a Raja Yogi : Be a dude before you can become an ascetic . This is me being a rock star , even if it 's in my own house . You know ? So when Netra and I sat down to make our first plan 10 years ago , we said we want the focus of this plan to go way beyond ourselves . What do we mean by beyond ourselves ? Well 200 years , we calculated , is at the end of our direct contact with the world . There 's nobody I 'll meet in my life will ever live beyond 200 years , so we thought that 's a perfect place where we should situate our plan and let our imagination take flight . You know , I never really believed in legacy . What am I going to leave behind ? I 'm an artist . Until I made a cartoon about 9/11 . It caused so much trouble for me . I was so upset . You know , a cartoon that was meant to be a cartoon of the week ended up staying so much longer . Now I 'm in the business of creating art that will definitely even outlive me , and I think about what I want to leave behind through those paintings . You know , the 9/11 cartoon upset me so much that I decided I 'll never cartoon again . I said , I 'm never going to make any honest public commentary again . But of course I continued creating artwork that was honest and raw , because I forgot about how people reacted to my work . You know , sometimes forgetting is so important to remain idealistic . Perhaps loss of memory is so crucial for our survival as human beings . One of the most important things in my 200-year plan that Netra and I write is what to forget about ourselves . You know , we carry so much baggage , from our parents , from our society , from so many people -- fears , insecurities -- and our 200-year plan really lists all our childhood problems that we have to expire . We actually put an expiry date on all our childhood problems . The latest date I put was , I said , I am going to expire my fear of my leftist , feminist mother-in-law , and this today is the date ! ( Laughs ) She 's watching . ( Laughter ) Anyway , you know , I really make decisions all the time about how I want to remember myself , and that 's the most important kind of decisions I make . Netra and I use our technology as a tool in our 200-year plan to really curate our digital legacy . That is a picture of my mother , and she recently got a Facebook account . And I actually untagged myself first , then I picked up the phone . Maybe we are among the first generation that really understands this digital curating of ourselves . You know , whether you agree with , you know , legacy or not , we are actually leaving behind digital traces all the time . How , you may ask ? Well , when I think of the future , I never see myself moving forward in time . I remember when I was 19 , I did , I wanted to do my first art exhibition , and I wanted the whole world to know about it . As it turned out , next morning I wrote a letter to both of them , and Shabana Azmi replied , and came and launched my very first show 12 years ago . Netra 's a high school history teacher . She gave me an indulgent smile , and as punishment , she said , `` Tomorrow I 'm teaching a class on Indian history , and you are sitting in it , and I 'm grading you . I 'm like , `` Oh , God . I actually went and sat in on her class . History as an imaging tool ? I was so inspired . I went and created my own version of Indian history . You know , if this is so , it occurred to me that maybe , just maybe , the primary objective of our brains is to serve our dignity . Netra and I do n't write our 200-year plan for someone else to come and execute it in 150 years . You know , I used to believe that education is the most important tool to leave a meaningful legacy . I 'd like to make the argument that creativity is the most important tool we have . I like to think -- Thank you . I like to think of myself as a storyteller , where my past and my future are only stories , my stories , waiting to be told and retold . Thank you so much . Shukran ! ( Applause ) 