Technology has brought us so much : the moon landing , the Internet , the ability to sequence the human genome . But it also taps into a lot of our deepest fears , and about 30 years ago , the culture critic Neil Postman wrote a book called `` Amusing Ourselves to Death , '' which lays this out really brilliantly . And here 's what he said , comparing the dystopian visions of George Orwell and Aldous Huxley . He said , Orwell feared we would become a captive culture . Huxley feared we would become a trivial culture . Orwell feared the truth would be concealed from us , and Huxley feared we would be drowned in a sea of irrelevance . In a nutshell , it 's a choice between Big Brother watching you and you watching Big Brother . ( Laughter ) But it does n't have to be this way . Now , there 's a group of data scientists out of the University of Illinois-Chicago , and they 're called the Health Media Collaboratory , and they 've been working with the Centers for Disease Control to better understand how people talk about quitting smoking , how they talk about electronic cigarettes , and what they can do collectively to help them quit . So then you have to think about , well , how do people talk about electronic cigarettes ? And there are so many different ways that people do this , and you can see from the slide it 's a complex kind of a query . So did these ads that the CDC put on , these television ads that featured a woman with a hole in her throat and that were very graphic and very disturbing , did they actually have an impact on whether people quit ? And the Health Media Collaboratory respected the limits of their data , but they were able to conclude that those advertisements — and you may have seen them — that they had the effect of jolting people into a thought process that may have an impact on future behavior . And so it 's not just big data that causes challenges of interpretation , because let 's face it , we human beings have a very rich history of taking any amount of data , no matter how small , and screwing it up . I want to tell you a personal story about why this matters a lot to me . He was teaching himself to communicate , but we were looking in the wrong place , and this is what happens when assessments and analytics overvalue one metric — in this case , verbal communication — and undervalue others , such as creative problem-solving . And so this little moment had a really profound impact on me and our family because it helped us change our frame of reference for what was going on with him , and worry a little bit less and appreciate his resourcefulness more . Facts are stupid things . And at this point , you might be thinking , `` Okay , Susan , we get it , you can take data , you can make it mean anything . And it means questioning disciplines like demographics . So the Health Media Collaboratory , at the end of their project , they were able to find that 87 percent of tweets about those very graphic and disturbing anti-smoking ads expressed fear , but did they conclude that they actually made people stop smoking ? No . So if we are to unlock the power of data , we do n't have to go blindly into Orwell 's vision of a totalitarian future , or Huxley 's vision of a trivial one , or some horrible cocktail of both . Thank you . ( Applause ) 