Three years ago , I was standing about a hundred yards from Chernobyl nuclear reactor number four . My Geiger counter dosimeter , which measures radiation , was going berserk , and the closer I got , the more frenetic it became , and frantic . My God . I was there covering the 25th anniversary of the world 's worst nuclear accident , as you can see by the look on my face , reluctantly so , but with good reason , because the nuclear fire that burned for 11 days back in 1986 released 400 times as much radiation as the bomb dropped on Hiroshima , and the sarcophagus , which is the covering over reactor number four , which was hastily built 27 years ago , now sits cracked and rusted and leaking radiation . So I was filming . I just wanted to get the job done and get out of there fast . But then , I looked into the distance , and I saw some smoke coming from a farmhouse , and I 'm thinking , who could be living here ? I mean , after all , Chernobyl 's soil , water and air , are among the most highly contaminated on Earth , and the reactor sits at the the center of a tightly regulated exclusion zone , or dead zone , and it 's a nuclear police state , complete with border guards . You have to have dosimeter at all times , clicking away , you have to have a government minder , and there 's draconian radiation rules and constant contamination monitoring . The point being , no human being should be living anywhere near the dead zone . But they are . It turns out an unlikely community of some 200 people are living inside the zone . They 're called self-settlers . And almost all of them are women , the men having shorter lifespans in part due to overuse of alcohol , cigarettes , if not radiation . Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated at the time of the accident , but not everybody accepted that fate . The women in the zone , now in their 70s and 80s , are the last survivors of a group who defied authorities and , it would seem , common sense , and returned to their ancestral homes inside the zone . They did so illegally . As one woman put it to a soldier who was trying to evacuate her for a second time , `` Shoot me and dig the grave . Otherwise , I 'm going home . '' Now why would they return to such deadly soil ? I mean , were they unaware of the risks or crazy enough to ignore them , or both ? The thing is , they see their lives and the risks they run decidedly differently . Now around Chernobyl , there are scattered ghost villages , eerily silent , strangely charming , bucolic , totally contaminated . Many were bulldozed under at the time of the accident , but a few are left like this , kind of silent vestiges to the tragedy . Others have a few residents in them , one or two `` babushkas , '' or `` babas , '' which are the Russian and Ukrainian words for grandmother . Another village might have six or seven residents . So this is the strange demographic of the zone -- isolated alone together . And when I made my way to that piping chimney I 'd seen in the distance , I saw Hanna Zavorotnya , and I met her . She 's the self-declared mayor of Kapavati village , population eight . ( Laughter ) And she said to me , when I asked her the obvious , `` Radiation does n't scare me . And you have to remember , these women have survived the worst atrocities of the 20th century . And there is a kind of heroic resilience , a kind of plain-spoken pragmatism to those who start their day at 5 a.m. pulling water from a well and end it at midnight poised to beat a bucket with a stick and scare off wild boar that might mess with their potatoes , their only company a bit of homemade moonshine vodka . Now , like many of you , I have moved maybe 20 , 25 times in my life . `` If you leave , you die . `` Those who left are worse off now . `` Motherland is motherland . What sounds like faith , soft faith , may actually be fact , because the surprising truth -- I mean , there are no studies , but the truth seems to be that these women who returned to their homes and have lived on some of the most radioactive land on Earth for the last 27 years , have actually outlived their counterparts who accepted relocation , by some estimates up to 10 years . How could this be ? Here 's a theory : Could it be that those ties to ancestral soil , the soft variables reflected in their aphorisms , actually affect longevity ? The power of motherland so fundamental to that part of the world seems palliative . Now radiation or not , these women are at the end of their lives . Thank you . ( Applause ) 