I 'm almost like a crazy evangelical . I 've always known that the age of design is upon us , almost like a rapture . If the day is sunny , I think , `` Oh , the gods have had a good design day . '' Or , I go to a show and I see a beautiful piece by an artist , particularly beautiful , I say he 's so good because he clearly looked to design to understand what he needed to do . So I really do believe that design is the highest form of creative expression . That 's why I 'm talking to you today about the age of design , and the age of design is the age in which design is still cute furniture , is still posters , is still fast cars , what you see at MoMA today . But in truth , what I really would like to explain to the public and to the audiences of MoMA is that the most interesting chairs are the ones that are actually made by a robot , like this beautiful chair by Dirk Vander Kooij , where a robot deposits a toothpaste-like slur of recycled refrigerator parts , as if he were a big candy , and makes a chair out of it . Or good design is digital fonts that we use all the time and that become part of our identity . I want people to understand that design is so much more than cute chairs , that it is first and foremost everything that is around us in our life . And it 's interesting how so much of what we 're talking about tonight is not simply design but interaction design . And in fact , interaction design is what I 've been trying to insert in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art for a few years , starting not very timidly but just pointedly with works , for instance , by Martin Wattenberg -- the way a machine plays chess with itself , that you see here , or Lisa Strausfeld and her partners , the Sugar interface for One Laptop Per Child , Toshio Iwai 's Tenori-On musical instruments , and Philip Worthington 's Shadow Monsters , and John Maeda 's Reactive Books , and also Jonathan Harris and Sep Kamvar 's I Want You To Want Me . These were some of the first acquisitions that really introduced the idea of interaction design to the public . But more recently , I 've been trying really to go even deeper into interaction design with examples that are emotionally really suggestive and that really explain interaction design at a level that is almost undeniable . The Wind Map , by Wattenberg and Fernanda Viégas , I do n't know if you 've ever seen it -- it 's really fantastic . It looks at the territory of the United States as if it were a wheat field that is procured by the winds and that is really giving you a pictorial image of what 's going on with the winds in the United States . But also , more recently , we started acquiring video games , and that 's where all hell broke loose in a really interesting way . ( Laughter ) There are still people that believe that there 's a high and there 's a low . But here comes the art critic . So the first was Jonathan Jones from The Guardian . So the same Guardian rebuts , `` Are video games art : the debate that should n't be . You know , it 's like once again there 's this whole problem of design being often misunderstood for art , or the idea that is so diffuse that designers want to aspire to , would like to be called , artists . So my knight in shining armor , John Maeda , without any prompt , came out with this big declaration on why video games belong in the MoMA . But then there was another wonderfully pretentious article that came out in The New Republic , so pretentious , by Liel Leibovitz , and it said , `` MoMA has mistaken video games for art . So it 's so fantastic to see how these feathers that were ruffled , and these reactions , were so vehement . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) You know , we have to go through that . So behind these acquisitions is an enormous amount of work , because we 're still the Museum of Modern Art , so even when we tackle popular culture , we tackle it as a form of interaction design and as something that has to go into the collection at MoMA , therefore , has to be researched . And that 's really where interaction lies , and that 's the importance of interaction . You know , video games can be truly deep even when they 're completely mindless . Not to mention Eve Online . Dwarf Fortress is like the holy grail of this kind of massive multiplayer online game , and in fact the two Adams brothers were in Reykjavík , and they were greeted by a standing ovation by all the Eve Online fans . And you know , Valve -- you know , Portal -- is an example of a video game in which you have a certain type of violence which also leads me to talk about one of the biggest issues that we had to discuss when we acquired the video games , what to do with violence . And right now , we started with the first 14 , but we have several that are coming up , and the reason why we have n't acquired them yet is because you do n't acquire just the game . But I want to explain to you the criteria that we chose for interaction design . And so is space , the spatial aspect of games . Time . So time , space , aesthetics , and then , most important , behavior . We do n't want to show the video games with the paraphernalia . So the way we acquired the games is very interesting and very unorthodox . One of my dream acquisitions , which has been on hold for a few years but now will come back on the front burner , is a 747 . And the same with the `` @ '' sign that we acquired a few years ago . Along the way , I 've had to burn a few chairs . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 