In the middle of my Ph.D. , I was hopelessly stuck . Every research direction that I tried led to a dead end . It seemed like my basic assumptions just stopped working . I felt like a pilot flying through the mist , and I lost all sense of direction . I stopped shaving . I could n't get out of bed in the morning . I felt unworthy of stepping across the gates of the university , because I was n't like Einstein or Newton or any other scientist whose results I had learned about , because in science , we just learn about the results , not the process . And so obviously , I could n't be a scientist . But I had enough support and I made it through and discovered something new about nature . This is an amazing feeling of calmness , being the only person in the world who knows a new law of nature . And I started the second project in my Ph.D , and it happened again . I got stuck and I made it through . And I started thinking , maybe there 's a pattern here . I asked the other graduate students , and they said , `` Yeah , that 's exactly what happened to us , except nobody told us about it . '' We 'd all studied science as if it 's a series of logical steps between question and answer , but doing research is nothing like that . At the same time , I was also studying to be an improvisation theater actor . So physics by day , and by night , laughing , jumping , singing , playing my guitar . Improvisation theater , just like science , goes into the unknown , because you have to make a scene onstage without a director , without a script , without having any idea what you 'll portray or what the other characters will do . But unlike science , in improvisation theater , they tell you from day one what 's going to happen to you when you get onstage . You 're going to fail miserably . You 're going to get stuck . And we would practice staying creative inside that stuck place . For example , we had an exercise where we all stood in a circle , and each person had to do the world 's worst tap dance , and everybody else applauded and cheered you on , supporting you onstage . When I became a professor and had to guide my own students through their research projects , I realized again , I do n't know what to do . I 'd studied thousands of hours of physics , biology , chemistry , but not one hour , not one concept on how to mentor , how to guide someone to go together into the unknown , about motivation . So I turned to improvisation theater , and I told my students from day one what 's going to happen when you start research , and this has to do with our mental schema of what research will be like . Because you see , whenever people do anything , for example if I want to touch this blackboard , my brain first builds up a schema , a prediction of exactly what my muscles will do before I even start moving my hand , and if I get blocked , if my schema does n't match reality , that causes extra stress called cognitive dissonance . That 's why your schemas had better match reality . But if you believe the way science is taught , and if you believe textbooks , you 're liable to have the following schema of research . If A is the question , and B is the answer , then research is a direct path . The problem is that if an experiment does n't work , or a student gets depressed , it 's perceived as something utterly wrong and causes tremendous stress . And that 's why I teach my students a more realistic schema . Here 's an example where things do n't match your schema . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So I teach my students a different schema . Now this cloud is an inherent part of research , an inherent part of our craft , because the cloud stands guard at the boundary . Now notice that I put B in the land of the known , because we knew about it in the beginning , but C is always more interesting and more important than B . Now just knowing that word , the cloud , has been transformational in my research group , because students come to me and say , `` Uri , I 'm in the cloud , '' and I say , `` Great , you must be feeling miserable . So knowing about the cloud , you also learn from improvisation theater a very effective way to have conversations inside the cloud . Saying `` Yes , and '' sounds like this . `` Here is a pool of water . `` Look , there 's a whale ! Let 's grab it by its tail . So saying `` Yes , and '' bypasses our inner critic . So you see , knowing about the cloud and about saying `` Yes , and '' made my lab very creative . Soon enough , after this , I started being invited to give talks to thousands of scientists across the world , but the knowledge about the cloud and saying `` Yes , and '' just stayed within my own lab , because you see , in science , we do n't talk about the process , anything subjective or emotional . That way of thinking got turned on its head when by chance I went to hear Evelyn Fox Keller give a talk about her experiences as a woman in science . And eventually I managed to get out the cloud using improvisation and music . ♪ I 've been scooped again ♪ ♪ Scoop ! Scoop ! ♪ And then we go for it . ♪ I 've been scooped again ♪ ♪ Scoop ! Scoop ! ♪ ♪ I 've been scooped again ♪ ♪ Scoop ! Scoop ! ♪ ♪ I 've been scooped again ♪ ♪ Scoop ! Scoop ! ♪ ♪ I 've been scooped again ♪ ♪ Scoop ! Scoop ! ♪ ♪ Oh mama , ca n't you feel my pain ♪ ♪ Heavens help me , I 've been scooped again ♪ ( Applause ) Thank you . So everybody starts laughing , starts breathing , notices that there 's other scientists around them with shared issues , and we start talking about the emotional and subjective things that go on in research . So my vision is that , just like every scientist knows the word `` atom , '' that matter is made out of atoms , every scientist would know the words like `` the cloud , '' saying `` Yes , and , '' and science will become much more creative , make many , many more unexpected discoveries for the benefit of us all , and would also be much more playful . Thank you . ( Applause ) 