An evolutionary biologist at Purdue University named William Muir studied chickens . He was interested in productivity -- I think it 's something that concerns all of us -- but it 's easy to measure in chickens because you just count the eggs . ( Laughter ) He wanted to know what could make his chickens more productive , so he devised a beautiful experiment . After six generations had passed , what did he find ? Well , the first group , the average group , was doing just fine . Now , as I 've gone around the world talking about this and telling this story in all sorts of organizations and companies , people have seen the relevance almost instantly , and they come up and they say things to me like , `` That superflock , that 's my company . All my life I 've been told that the way we have to get ahead is to compete : get into the right school , get into the right job , get to the top , and I 've really never found it very inspiring . So what is it that makes some groups obviously more successful and more productive than others ? Well , that 's the question a team at MIT took to research . So how does this play out in the real world ? Well , it means that what happens between people really counts , because in groups that are highly attuned and sensitive to each other , ideas can flow and grow . An example : Arup is one of the world 's most successful engineering firms , and it was commissioned to build the equestrian center for the Beijing Olympics . Now , helpfulness sounds really anemic , but it 's absolutely core to successful teams , and it routinely outperforms individual intelligence . Now , that was 20 years ago , and now I visit companies that have banned coffee cups at desks because they want people to hang out around the coffee machines and talk to each other . Now , when you put all of this together , what you get is something called social capital . Now , we are n't really used to talking about this , about talent , about creativity , in this way . We know that this works . There was a lot at stake then , and there 's a lot at stake now , and we wo n't solve our problems if we expect it to be solved by a few supermen or superwomen . Thank you . ( Applause ) 