I 'd like to reimagine education . The last year has seen the invention of a new four-letter word . It starts with an M. MOOC : massive open online courses . Many organizations are offering these online courses to students all over the world , in the millions , for free . Anybody who has an Internet connection and the will to learn can access these great courses from excellent universities and get a credential at the end of it . Now , in this discussion today , I 'm going to focus on a different aspect of MOOCs . We are taking what we are learning and the technologies we are developing in the large and applying them in the small to create a blended model of education to really reinvent and reimagine what we do in the classroom . Now , our classrooms could use change . So , here 's a classroom at this little three-letter institute in the Northeast of America , MIT . And this was a classroom about 50 or 60 years ago , and this is a classroom today . What 's changed ? The seats are in color . Whoop-de-do . Education really has n't changed in the past 500 years . The last big innovation in education was the printing press and the textbooks . Everything else has changed around us . You know , from healthcare to transportation , everything is different , but education has n't changed . It 's also been a real issue in terms of access . So what you see here is not a rock concert . And the person you see at the end of the stage is not Madonna . This is a classroom at the Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria . Now , we 've all heard of distance education , but the students way in the back , 200 feet away from the instructor , I think they are undergoing long-distance education . Now , I really believe that we can transform education , both in quality and scale and access , through technology . For example , at edX , we are trying to transform education through online technologies . Given education has been calcified for 500 years , we really can not think about reengineering it , micromanaging it . We really have to completely reimagine it . It 's like going from ox carts to the airplane . Even the infrastructure has to change . Everything has to change . We need to go from lectures on the blackboard to online exercises , online videos . We have to go to interactive virtual laboratories and gamification . We have to go to completely online grading and peer interaction and discussion boards . Everything really has to change . So at edX and a number of other organizations , we are applying these technologies to education through MOOCs to really increase access to education . And you heard of this example , where , when we launched our very first course -- and this was an MIT-hard circuits and electronics course -- about a year and a half ago , 155,000 students from 162 countries enrolled in this course . And we had no marketing budget . Now , 155,000 is a big number . This number is bigger than the total number of alumni of MIT in its 150-year history . 7,200 students passed the course , and this was a hard course . 7,200 is also a big number . If I were to teach at MIT two semesters every year , I would have to teach for 40 years before I could teach this many students . Now these large numbers are just one part of the story . So today , I want to discuss a different aspect , the other side of MOOCs , take a different perspective . We are taking what we develop and learn in the large and applying it in the small to the classroom , to create a blended model of learning . But before I go into that , let me tell you a story . When my daughter turned 13 , became a teenager , she stopped speaking English , and she began speaking this new language . I call it teen-lish . It 's a digital language . It 's got two sounds : a grunt and a silence . `` Honey , come over for dinner . '' `` Hmm . '' `` Did you hear me ? '' Silence . ( Laughter ) `` Can you listen to me ? '' & amp ; quot ; Hmm. & amp ; quot ; So we had a real issue with communicating , and we were just not communicating , until one day I had this epiphany . So our millennial generation is built differently . We were also doing other pilots . Now before we go too far into this , I 'd like to spend some time discussing some key ideas . One idea is active learning . The second idea is self-pacing . The third idea that we have is instant feedback . The next big idea is gamification . Fifth is peer learning . Now this is all not just in the future . Finally , I would like to have you dream with me for a little bit . But I think at the end of the day , I think we will still need one lecture hall in our universities . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . 