As a matter of fact , I was trying to think about my career since I left the White House , and the best example I have is a cartoon in The New Yorker a couple of years ago . This little boy is looking up at his father , and he says , `` Daddy , when I grow up , I want to be a former president . '' ( Laughter ) Well , I have had a great blessing as a former president , because I have had an access that very few other people in the world have ever had to get to know so many people around this whole universe . So our overall commitment at the Carter Center is to promote human rights , and knowing the world as I do , I can tell you without any equivocation that the number one abuse of human rights on Earth is , strangely , not addressed quite often , is the abuse of women and girls . ( Applause ) There are a couple of reasons for this that I 'll mention to begin with . This is a very serious problem . The other very serious blight that causes this problem is the excessive resort to violence , and that is increasing tremendously around the world . Let me just go down a very few abuses of women that concern me most , and I 'll be fairly brief , because I have a limited amount of time , as you know . One is genital mutilation . Another very serious thing is honor killings , where a family with misinterpretation , again , of a holy scripture -- there 's nothing in the Quran that mandates this -- will execute a girl in their family if she is raped or if she marries a man that her father does not approve , or sometimes even if she wears inappropriate clothing . Another problem that we have in the world that relates to women particularly is slavery , or human trafficking it 's called nowadays . And this leads to one of the worst problems , and that is that women are bought increasingly and put into sexual slavery in all countries in the world . Sweden has got a good approach to it . We have two great institutions in this country that all of us admire : our military and our great university system . About one out of four girls who enter American universities will be sexually assaulted before she graduates , and this is now getting a lot of publicity , partially because of my book , but other things , and so 89 universities in America are now condemned by the Department of Education under Title IX because the officials of the universities are not taking care of the women to protect them from sexual assault . Another thing that 's very serious about the abuse of women and girls is the lack of equal pay for equal work , as you know . Another problem with the United States is we are the most warlike nation on Earth . There 's one more basic cause that I need not mention , and that is that in general , men do n't give a damn . So what is the basic thing that we need to do today ? I would say the best thing that we could do today is for the women in the powerful nations like this one , and where you come from , Europe and so forth , who have influence and who have freedom to speak and to act , need to take the responsibility on yourselves to be more forceful in demanding an end to racial discrimination against girls and women all over the world . I have 12 grandchildren , four children , and 10 great-grandchildren , and I think often about them and about the plight that they will face in America , not only if they lived in Egypt or a foreign country , in having equal rights , and I hope that all of you will join me in being a champion for women and girls around the world and protect their human rights . 