I essentially drag sledges for a living , so it does n't take an awful lot to flummox me intellectually , but I 'm going to read this question from an interview earlier this year : `` Philosophically , does the constant supply of information steal our ability to imagine or replace our dreams of achieving ? After all , if it is being done somewhere by someone , and we can participate virtually , then why bother leaving the house ? '' I 'm usually introduced as a polar explorer . I 'm not sure that 's the most progressive or 21st-century of job titles , but I 've spent more than two percent now of my entire life living in a tent inside the Arctic Circle , so I get out of the house a fair bit . And in my nature , I guess , I am a doer of things more than I am a spectator or a contemplator of things , and it 's that dichotomy , the gulf between ideas and action that I 'm going to try and explore briefly . The pithiest answer to the question `` why ? '' that 's been dogging me for the last 12 years was credited certainly to this chap , the rakish-looking gentleman standing at the back , second from the left , George Lee Mallory . Many of you will know his name . In 1924 he was last seen disappearing into the clouds near the summit of Mt . Everest . He may or may not have been the first person to climb Everest , more than 30 years before Edmund Hillary . No one knows if he got to the top . It 's still a mystery . But he was credited with coining the phrase , `` Because it 's there . '' Now I 'm not actually sure that he did say that . There 's very little evidence to suggest it , but what he did say is actually far nicer , and again , I 've printed this . I 'm going to read it out . `` The first question which you will ask and which I must try to answer is this : What is the use of climbing Mt . Everest ? And my answer must at once be , it is no use . There is not the slightest prospect of any gain whatsoever . Oh , we may learn a little about the behavior of the human body at high altitudes , and possibly medical men may turn our observation to some account for the purposes of aviation , but otherwise nothing will come of it . We shall not bring back a single bit of gold or silver , and not a gem , nor any coal or iron . We shall not find a single foot of earth that can be planted with crops to raise food . So it is no use . If you can not understand that there is something in man which responds to the challenge of this mountain and goes out to meet it , that the struggle is the struggle of life itself upward and forever upward , then you wo n't see why we go . What we get from this adventure is just sheer joy , and joy , after all , is the end of life . We do n't live to eat and make money . We eat and make money to be able to enjoy life . That is what life means , and that is what life is for . '' Mallory 's argument that leaving the house , embarking on these grand adventures is joyful and fun , however , does n't tally that neatly with my own experience . The furthest I 've ever got away from my front door was in the spring of 2004 . I still do n't know exactly what came over me , but my plan was to make a solo and unsupported crossing of the Arctic Ocean . I planned essentially to walk from the north coast of Russia to the North Pole , and then to carry on to the north coast of Canada . No one had ever done this . I was 26 at the time . A lot of experts were saying it was impossible , and my mum certainly was n't very keen on the idea . ( Laughter ) The journey from a small weather station on the north coast of Siberia up to my final starting point , the edge of the pack ice , the coast of the Arctic Ocean , took about five hours , and if anyone watched fearless Felix Baumgartner going up , rather than just coming down , you 'll appreciate the sense of apprehension , as I sat in a helicopter thundering north , and the sense , I think if anything , of impending doom . And that journey lasted 10 weeks , 72 days . One of the magical things about this journey , however , is that because I 'm walking over the sea , over this floating , drifting , shifting crust of ice that 's floating on top of the Arctic Ocean is it 's an environment that 's in a constant state of flux . Mallory postulated that there is something in man that responds to the challenge of the mountain , and I wonder if that 's the case whether there 's something in the challenge itself , in the endeavor , and particularly in the big , unfinished , chunky challenges that face humanity that call out to us , and in my experience that 's certainly the case . Many of you will know the story . There is a sort of misconception nowadays that it 's all been done in the fields of exploration and adventure . But Scott 's journey remains unfinished . This time next year , in October , I 'm leading a team of three . And our lives today are safer and more comfortable than they have ever been . 