A question I 'm often asked is , where did I get my passion for human rights and justice ? It started early . I grew up in the west of Ireland , wedged between four brothers , two older than me and two younger than me . So of course I had to be interested in human rights , and equality and justice , and using my elbows ! ( Laughter ) And those issues stayed with me and guided me , and in particular , when I was elected the first woman President of Ireland , from 1990 to 1997 . What I did n't have to do as president was buy land on mainland Europe , so that Irish citizens could go there because our island was going underwater . I came to climate change not as a scientist or an environmental lawyer , and I was n't really impressed by the images of polar bears or melting glaciers . I met Constance Okollet , who had formed a women 's group in Eastern Uganda , and she told me that when she was growing up , she had a very normal life in her village and they did n't go hungry , they knew that the seasons would come as they were predicted to come , they knew when to sow and they knew when to harvest , and so they had enough food . Indeed , I was very struck about the situation in Malawi in January of this year . And I know that we 're not able to address some of that injustice because we 're not on course for a safe world . And that brought me then to climate justice . In our very unequal world today , it 's very striking how many people are left behind . It 's a very big change , and it means that obviously , industrialized countries must cut their emissions , must become much more energy-efficient , and must move as quickly as possible to renewable energy . The good news is that change is happening , and it 's happening very fast . Let me come back to President Tong and his people in Kiribati . I was very conscious of this as I took part this year in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War in 1945 . 2015 is a year that is similar in its importance to 1945 , with similar challenges and similar potential . The reality is that this issue is much too important to be left to politicians and to the United Nations . ( Laughter ) It 's an issue for all of us , and it 's an issue where we need more and more momentum . ( Laughter ) Even they are beginning to slightly change their language -- but only slightly . I was very struck when I learned that Jibreel Khazan , one of the Greensboro Four who had taken part in the Woolworth sit-ins , said quite recently that climate change is the lunch counter moment for young people . I recall very much the Climate March last September , and that was a huge momentum , not just in New York , but all around the world . ( Laughter ) That 's what I felt . And just as we 've been looking back this year -- in 2015 to 1945 , looking back 70 years -- I would like to think that they will look back , that world will look back 35 years from 2050 , 35 years to 2015 , and that they will say , `` Were n't they good to do what they did in 2015 ? We really appreciate that they took the decisions that made a difference , and that put the world on the right pathway , and we benefit now from that pathway , '' that they will feel that somehow we took our responsibilities , we did what was done in 1945 in similar terms , we did n't miss the opportunity , we lived up to our responsibilities . And somehow for me , it 's captured in words of somebody that I admired very much . Thank you . ( Applause ) 