Like most journalists , I 'm an idealist . I love unearthing good stories , especially untold stories . I just did n't think that , in 2011 , women would still be in that category . I 'm the President of the Journalism & amp ; Women Symposium , JAWS . That 's Sharky . ( Laughter ) I joined 10 years ago because I wanted female role models , and I was frustrated by the lagging status of women in our profession , and what that meant for our image in the media . This is a picture of President Barack Obama and his advisors tracking the killing of Osama bin Laden . This is an extreme case , yes , but the fact is , women are only 19 percent of the sources in stories on politics , and only 20 percent in stories on the economy . The problem is , of course , there are n't enough women in newsrooms . Case in point , this March , the New York Times ran a story by James McKinley about a gang rape of a young girl , 11 years old , in a small Texas town . The Times was deluged with criticism . So three weeks later , the Times revisits the story . The Global Media Monitoring Project has found that stories by female reporters are more likely to challenge stereotypes than those by male reporters . Stories in the news are more than twice as likely to present women as victims than men , and women are more likely to be defined by their body parts . So -- ( Applause ) Here 's the thing . Here 's my problem with that argument . Now , Fast Company Magazine embraces that idea . By the way , apparently Wired took all this to heart . It would help to have more women in positions of leadership in the media . Shankar Vedantam is the author of `` The Hidden Brain : How Our Unconscious Minds Elect Presidents , Control Markets , Wage Wars , and Save Our Lives . Now , I do n't know if one of the editors was a woman , but that can make the biggest differences . This is an important point to consider , because much of our foreign policy now revolves around countries where the treatment of women is an issue , such as Afghanistan . It 's important to keep talking about this in light of Lara Logan . One way to get more women into leadership is to have other women mentor them . But this is not just a job for super-journalists , or my organization . And I 'll leave you with a video clip that I first saw in [ 1987 ] when I was a student in London . 