You may want to take a closer look . There 's more to this painting than meets the eye . And yes , it 's an acrylic painting of a man , but I did n't paint it on canvas . I painted it directly on top of the man . What I do in my art is I skip the canvas altogether , and if I want to paint your portrait , I 'm painting it on you , physically on you . That also means you 're probably going to end up with an earful of paint , because I need to paint your ear on your ear . Everything in this scene , the person , the clothes , chairs , wall , gets covered in a mask of paint that mimics what 's directly below it , and in this way , I 'm able to take a three-dimensional scene and make it look like a two-dimensional painting . I can photograph it from any angle , and it will still look 2D . There 's no Photoshop here . This is just a photo of one of my three-dimensional paintings . You might be wondering how I came up with this idea of turning people into paintings . But originally , this had nothing to do with either people or paint . It was about shadows . I was fascinated with the absence of light , and I wanted to find a way that I could give it materiality and pin it down before it changed . I came up with the idea of painting shadows . I loved that I could hide within this shadow my own painted version , and it would be almost invisible until the light changed , and all of a sudden my shadow would be brought to the light . I wanted to think about what else I could put shadows on , and I thought of my friend Bernie . But I did n't just want to paint the shadows . I also wanted to paint the highlights and create a mapping on his body in greyscale . I had a very specific vision of what this would look like , and as I was painting him , I made sure to follow that very closely . But something kept on flickering before my eyes . I was n't quite sure what I was looking at . And then when I took that moment to take a step back , magic . I had turned my friend into a painting . I could n't have foreseen that when I wanted to paint a shadow , I would pull out this whole other dimension , that I would collapse it , that I would take a painting and make it my friend and then bring him back to a painting . I was a little conflicted though , because I was so excited about what I 'd found , but I was just about to graduate from college with a degree in political science , and I 'd always had this dream of going to Washington , D.C. , and sitting at a desk and working in government . ( Laughter ) Why did this have to get in the way of all that ? I made the tough decision of going home after graduation and not going up to Capitol Hill , but going down to my parents ' basement and making it my job to learn how to paint . My early canvases ended up being things that you would n't expect to be used as canvas , like fried food . And if I wanted to paint on people , well , I was a little bit embarrassed to bring people down into my studio and show them that I spent my days in a basement putting paint on toast . I was having so much fun with this process . When we started out on the milk project , and when I started out , I could n't have foreseen that I would go from pursuing my dream in politics and working at a desk to tripping over a shadow and then turning people into paintings and painting on people in a pool of milk . Thank you . ( Applause ) 