I 'm a brain scientist , and as a brain scientist , I 'm actually interested in how the brain learns , and I 'm especially interested in a possibility of making our brains smarter , better and faster . This is in this context I 'm going to tell you about video games . When we say video games , most of you think about children . It 's true . Ninety percent of children do play video games . But let 's be frank . When the kids are in bed , who is in front of the PlayStation ? Most of you . The average age of a gamer is 33 years old , not eight years old , and in fact , if we look at the projected demographics of video game play , the video game players of tomorrow are older adults . ( Laughter ) So video [ gaming ] is pervasive throughout our society . So what we are asking in the lab is , how can we leverage that power ? Now I want to step back a bit . There 's not one week that goes without some major headlines in the media about whether video games are good or bad for you , right ? You 're all bombarded with that . One first saying that I 'm sure you all have heard is the fact that too much screen time makes your eyesight worse . Another saying that I 'm sure you have all heard around : Video games lead to attention problems and greater distractability . Actually , those action video game players have many other advantages in terms of attention , and one aspect of attention which is also improved for the better is our ability to track objects around in the world . In the lab , we get people to come to the lab , sit in front of a computer screen , and we give them little tasks that I 'm going to get you to do again . Good . This actually leads me to a rather counterintuitive finding in the literature about technology and the brain . Now I 'd like you to remember that result , and put it in the context of another group of technology users , a group which is actually much revered by society , which are people that engage in multimedia-tasking . Right ? So these kinds of results really makes two main points . The other lesson is that general wisdom carries no weight . Now in a sense , when we think about the effect of video games on the brain , it 's very similar to the effect of wine on the health . Now because we are interested in having an impact for education or rehabilitation of patients , we are actually not that interested in how those of you that choose to play video games for many hours on end perform . So that 's really the crux of the research , and to do that , we need to go one more step . Well , what we do in these training studies is , people come to the lab , they do tasks like this one , we then force them to play 10 hours of action games . Now , at this point , a number of you are probably wondering well , what are you waiting for , to put on the market a game that would be good for the attention of my grandmother and that she would actually enjoy , or a game that would be great to rehabilitate the vision of my grandson who has amblyopia , for example ? Well , we 're working on it , but here is a challenge . 