Let me start by asking you a question , just with a show of hands : Who has an iPhone ? Who has an Android phone ? Who has a Blackberry ? Who will admit in public to having a Blackberry ? ( Laughter ) And let me guess , how many of you , when you arrived here , like me , went and bought a pay-as-you-go SIM card ? Yeah ? I 'll bet you did n't even know you 're using African technology . So I 'm going to talk about innovation in Africa , which I think is the purest form , innovation out of necessity . Why did Nikola Tesla have to invent the alternating current that powers the lights in this building or the city that we 're in ? Why did Henry Ford have to invent the production line to produce these Fords that came in anything as long as they were black ? And why did Eric Merrifield have to invent the dolos ? Blank stares . So whenever you talk about Africa , you have to put up this picture of the world from space , and people go , `` Look , it 's the Dark Continent . So where it 's happening is in Africa . So in California , everybody 's really excited about a little square of plastic that you plug into a phone and you can swipe your credit card , and people say , `` We 've liberated the credit card from the point of sale terminal . And you think this is just a feature phone . So we have found a way to use the available technology to send money via M-Pesa , which is a bit like a check system for the mobile age . So what are some of the things that you can do with it ? Well , this is by a guy called Bright Simons from Ghana , and what you do is you take medication , something that some people might spend their entire month 's salary on , and you scratch off the code , and you send that to an SMS number , and it tells you if that is legitimate or if it 's expired . So , you hear the West talk about innovation at the edge . So , people like to call Africa a mobile-first continent , but actually it 's mobile-only , so while everybody else is doing all of those things , we 're solving the world 's problems . [ `` You 're welcome '' ] ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) 