I 've noticed something interesting about society and culture . Everything risky requires a license . So , learning to drive , owning a gun , getting married . There 's a certain -- ( Laughter ) That 's true in everything risky , except technology . First of all , on the web , if you want to scroll down , do n't pick up the mouse and use the scroll bar . Also on the web , when you 're filling in one of these forms like your addresses , I assume you know that you can hit the Tab key to jump from box to box to box . Also on the web , when the text is too small , what you do is hold down the Control key and hit plus , plus , plus . When you 're typing on your Blackberry , Android , iPhone , do n't bother switching layouts to the punctuation layout to hit the period and then a space , then try to capitalize the next letter . Also when it comes to cell phones , on all phones , if you want to redial somebody that you 've dialed before , all you have to do is hit the call button , and it puts the last phone number into the box for you , and at that point you can hit call again to actually dial it . Something that drives me crazy : When I call you and leave a message on your voice mail , I hear you saying , `` Leave a message , '' and then I get these 15 seconds of freaking instructions , like we have n't had answering machines for 45 years ! ( Laughter ) I 'm not bitter . ( Laughter ) So it turns out there 's a keyboard shortcut that lets you jump directly to the beep like this . Phone : At the tone , please ... ( Beep ) David Pogue : Unfortunately , the carriers did n't adopt the same keystroke , so it 's different by carrier , so it devolves upon you to learn the keystroke for the person you 're calling . So most of you think of Google as something that lets you look up a web page , but it is also a dictionary . While we 're talking about text -- When you want to highlight -- this is just an example -- ( Laughter ) When you want to highlight a word , please do n't waste your life dragging across it with the mouse like a newbie . ( Laughter ) Shutter lag is the time between your pressing the shutter button and the moment the camera actually snaps . ( Camera click ) ( Laughter ) So , that 's because the camera needs time to calculate the focus and exposure , but if you pre-focus with a half-press , leave your finger down -- no shutter lag ! You get it every time . And finally , it often happens that you 're giving a talk , and for some reason , the audience is looking at the slide instead of at you ! ( Laughter ) So when that happens -- this works in Keynote , PowerPoint , it works in every program -- all you do is hit the letter B key , B for blackout , to black out the slide , make everybody look at you , and then when you 're ready to go on , you hit B again , and if you 're really on a roll , you can hit the W key for `` whiteout , '' and you white out the slide , and then you can hit W again to un-blank it . So I know I went super fast . Have a great day . ( Applause ) 