So when I was in Morocco , in Casablanca , not so long ago , I met a young unmarried mother called Faiza . Faiza showed me photos of her infant son and she told me the story of his conception , pregnancy , and delivery . It was a remarkable tale , but Faiza saved the best for last . `` You know , I am a virgin , '' she told me . `` I have two medical certificates to prove it . '' This is the modern Middle East , where two millennia after the coming of Christ , virgin births are still a fact of life . Faiza 's story is just one of hundreds I 've heard over the years , traveling across the Arab region talking to people about sex . Now , I know this might sound like a dream job , or possibly a highly dubious occupation , but for me , it 's something else altogether . I 'm half Egyptian , and I 'm Muslim . But I grew up in Canada , far from my Arab roots . Like so many who straddle East and West , I 've been drawn , over the years , to try to better understand my origins . That I chose to look at sex comes from my background in HIV/AIDS , as a writer and a researcher and an activist . Sex lies at the heart of an emerging epidemic in the Middle East and North Africa , which is one of only two regions in the world where HIV/AIDS is still on the rise . Now sexuality is an incredibly powerful lens with which to study any society , because what happens in our intimate lives is reflected by forces on a bigger stage : in politics and economics , in religion and tradition , in gender and generations . As I found , if you really want to know a people , you start by looking inside their bedrooms . Now to be sure , the Arab world is vast and varied . But running across it are three red lines -- these are topics you are not supposed to challenge in word or deed . The first of these is politics . But the Arab Spring has changed all that , in uprisings which have blossomed across the region since 2011 . Now while those in power , old and new , continue to cling to business as usual , millions are still pushing back , and pushing forward to what they hope will be a better life . That second red line is religion . But now religion and politics are connected , with the rise of such groups as the Muslim Brotherhood . And some people , at least , are starting to ask questions about the role of Islam in public and private life . You know , as for that third red line , that off-limits subject , what do you think it might be ? Audience : Sex . Shereen El Feki : Louder , I ca n't hear you . Audience : Sex . SEF : Again , please do n't be shy . Audience : Sex . SEF : Absolutely , that 's right , it 's sex . ( Laughter ) Across the Arab region , the only accepted context for sex is marriage -- approved by your parents , sanctioned by religion and registered by the state . It 's a social citadel ; it 's an impregnable fortress which resists any assault , any alternative . Faiza was living proof of this . Not so for women , who are expected to be virgins on their wedding night -- that is , to turn up with your hymen intact . And so women and their relatives will go to great lengths to preserve this tiny piece of anatomy -- from female genital mutilation , to virginity testing , to hymen repair surgery . Faiza chose a different route : non-vaginal sex . When her condition became hard to hide , Faiza 's mother helped her flee her father and brothers . Sadly , Faiza is not alone . There are career women who want to get married , but ca n't find a husband , because they defy gender expectations , or as one young female doctor in Tunisia put it to me , `` The women , they are becoming more and more open . And then there are men and women who cross the heterosexual line , who have sex with their own sex , or who have a different gender identity . Now , it 's not as if it 's all rosy in the marital bed either . And then there are those whose marriages are actually a veil for prostitution . Now raise your hand if any of this is sounding familiar to you , from your part of the world . And although we do n't yet have an Arab Kinsey Report to tell us exactly what 's happening inside bedrooms across the Arab region , It 's pretty clear that something is not right . As one doctor in Cairo summed it up for me , `` Here , sex is the opposite of sport . ( Music ) ( In Arabic ) SEF : I want to give you a piece of advice , which if you follow it , will make you happy in life . When your husband reaches out to you , when he seizes a part of your body , sigh deeply and look at him lustily . When he penetrates you with his penis , try to talk flirtatiously and move yourself in harmony with him . Hot stuff ! And it might sound that these handy hints come from `` The Joy of Sex '' or YouPorn . The Encyclopedia is just one in a long line of Arabic erotica , much of it written by religious scholars . Today , this history is largely unknown in the Arab region . But while the West has opened on sex , what we found is that Arab societies appear to have been moving in the opposite direction . But history shows us that even as recently as our fathers ' and grandfathers ' day , there have been times of greater pragmatism , and tolerance , and a willingness to consider other interpretations : be it abortion , or masturbation , or even the incendiary topic of homosexuality . Over my travels , I 've met men and women across the Arab region who 've been exploring that spectrum -- sexologists who are trying to help couples find greater happiness in their marriages , innovators who are managing to get sexuality education into schools , small groups of men and women , lesbian , gay , transgendered , transsexual , who are reaching out to their peers with online initiatives and real-world support . Now these efforts are small , they 're often underfunded , and they face formidable opposition . What we 're talking here is not about a sexual revolution , but a sexual evolution , learning from other parts of the world , adapting to local conditions , forging our own path , not following one blazed by another . Now we are very far from this across the Arab region , and so much needs to change : law , education , media , the economy , the list goes on and on , and it is the work of a generation , at least . But it begins with a journey that I myself have made , asking hard questions of received wisdoms in sexual life . Now given the turmoil in many countries in the Arab region , talking about sex , challenging the taboos , seeking alternatives might sound like something of a luxury . But at this critical moment in history , if we do not anchor freedom and justice , dignity and equality , privacy and autonomy in our personal lives , in our sexual lives , we will find it very hard to achieve in public life . The political and the sexual are intimate bedfellows , and that is true for us all . Thank you . ( Applause ) 