Steve Ramirez : My first year of grad school , I found myself in my bedroom eating lots of Ben & amp ; Jerry 's watching some trashy TV and maybe , maybe listening to Taylor Swift . I had just gone through a breakup . ( Laughter ) So for the longest time , all I would do is recall the memory of this person over and over again , wishing that I could get rid of that gut-wrenching , visceral `` blah '' feeling . Now , as it turns out , I 'm a neuroscientist , so I knew that the memory of that person and the awful , emotional undertones that color in that memory , are largely mediated by separate brain systems . All that said , there is one person in the entire world right now that I really hope is not watching this talk . ( Laughter ) So there is a catch . Xu Liu : Test mice . ( Laughter ) As neuroscientists , we work in the lab with mice trying to understand how memory works . SR : Are you convinced ? So , turns out finding a memory in the brain is n't all that easy . XL : Indeed . SR : So what was going on in my brain while I was recalling the memory of an ex ? If you were to just completely ignore human ethics for a second and slice up my brain right now , you would see that there was an amazing number of brain regions that were active while recalling that memory . XL : When you zoom in into the hippocampus , of course you will see lots of cells , but we are able to find which cells are involved in a particular memory , because whenever a cell is active , like when it 's forming a memory , it will also leave a footprint that will later allow us to know these cells are recently active . SR : So the same way that building lights at night let you know that somebody 's probably working there at any given moment , in a very real sense , there are biological sensors within a cell that are turned on only when that cell was just working . XL : So we clipped part of this sensor , and attached that to a switch to control the cells , and we packed this switch into an engineered virus and injected that into the brain of the mice . SR : So here is what the hippocampus looks like after forming a fear memory , for example . XL : Now , for the switch we have been talking about , ideally , the switch has to act really fast . SR : So what do you think , Xu ? Could we use , let 's say , pharmacological drugs to activate or inactivate brain cells ? XL : Nah . SR : So electricity is pretty fast , but we probably would n't be able to target it to just the specific cells that hold onto a memory , and we 'd probably fry the brain . XL : Oh . SR : So it just so happens that light travels at the speed of light . XL : That 's pretty fast . SR : -- and because normally brain cells do n't respond to pulses of light , so those that would respond to pulses of light are those that contain a light-sensitive switch . XL : Yep . SR : And the technique that lets us do that is optogenetics . SR : So let 's put all of this to the test now . XL : When you are as small as a mouse , it feels as if the whole world is trying to get you . SR : So you can think of freezing as , you 're walking down the street minding your own business , and then out of nowhere you almost run into an ex-girlfriend or ex-boyfriend , and now those terrifying two seconds where you start thinking , `` What do I do ? Do I say hi ? Do I shake their hand ? Do I turn around and run away ? Do I sit here and pretend like I do n't exist ? '' Those kinds of fleeting thoughts that physically incapacitate you , that temporarily give you that deer-in-headlights look . XL : However , if you put the mouse in a completely different new box , like the next one , it will not be afraid of this box because there 's no reason that it will be afraid of this new environment . But what if we put the mouse in this new box but at the same time , we activate the fear memory using lasers just like we did before ? Are we going to bring back the fear memory for the first box into this completely new environment ? SR : All right , and here 's the million-dollar experiment . XL : And this is what we saw . While watching this , Steve and I are as shocked as the mouse itself . After a kind of long , awkward period of time , Steve broke the silence . SR : `` Did that just work ? '' XL : `` Yes , '' I said . [ `` OMGGGGG FINALLY ... so much more to come , virtual reality , neural manipulation , visual dream emulation ... neural coding , 'writing and re-writing of memories ' , mental illnesses . SR : So the first thing that you 'll notice is that people have really strong opinions about this kind of work . [ `` This scares the hell out of me ... What if they could do that easily in humans in a couple of years ? ! OH MY GOD WE 'RE DOOMED '' ] XL : Indeed , if we take a look at the second one , I think we can all agree that it 's , meh , probably not as positive . SR : Now , in the spirit of the third quote , we want to tell you about a recent project that we 've been working on in lab that we 've called Project Inception . XL : So all memory is sophisticated and dynamic , but if just for simplicity , let 's imagine memory as a movie clip . SR : So how do we do this ? Rather than finding a fear memory in the brain , we can start by taking our animals , and let 's say we put them in a blue box like this blue box here and we find the brain cells that represent that blue box and we trick them to respond to pulses of light exactly like we had said before . XL : So , so far we are only talking about this light-controlled `` on '' switch . So everything we 've been talking about today is based on this philosophically charged principle of neuroscience that the mind , with its seemingly mysterious properties , is actually made of physical stuff that we can tinker with . SR : And for me personally , I see a world where we can reactivate any kind of memory that we 'd like . XL : Nowadays , people in the lab and people in other groups all over the world are using similar methods to activate or edit memories , whether that 's old or new , positive or negative , all sorts of memories so that we can understand how memory works . SR : For example , one group in our lab was able to find the brain cells that make up a fear memory and converted them into a pleasurable memory , just like that . XL : Indeed , we are living in a very exciting moment where science does n't have any arbitrary speed limits but is only bound by our own imagination . SR : And finally , what do we make of all this ? How do we push this technology forward ? These are the questions that should not remain just inside the lab , and so one goal of today 's talk was to bring everybody up to speed with the kind of stuff that 's possible in modern neuroscience , but now , just as importantly , to actively engage everybody in this conversation . Thank you . ( Applause ) 