I should tell you that when I was asked to be here , I thought to myself that well , it 's TED . And these TEDsters are -- you know , as innocent as that name sounds -- these are the philanthropists and artists and scientists who sort of shape our world . And what could I possibly have to say that would be distinguished enough to justify my participation in something like that ? And so I thought perhaps a really civilized-sounding British accent might help things a bit . And then I thought no , no . I should just get up there and be myself and just talk the way I really talk because , after all , this is the great unveiling . And so I thought I 'd come up here and unveil my real voice to you . Although many of you already know that I do speak the Queen 's English because I am from Queens , New York . ( Laughter ) But the theme of this session , of course , is invention . Okay . Frankly , I 'm kvelling just to be here with all the luminaries you have attending something like this , you know . But I -- I also appreciate the diversity that you have here . The point is , I 'm happy somebody has practical ideas to get us out of this mess . Hi . I just -- I 'm sorry . Okay . And actually , I can relate to the whole like acronym thing and everything . But like even at my job -- like , I just got promoted . So , that was Noraida , and just like Lorraine and everybody else you 're meeting today , these are folks who are based on real people from my real life : friends , neighbors , family members . Well , you know , it was beginner French , that I am taking with her , you know . But [ German ] . So , there were the teachers and then there were my friends , classmates from everywhere , many of whom are still dear friends to this day . Well , I just wanted to quickly say good evening . And , sadly , I do n't think we 'll have time for you to meet everybody I brought , but -- I 'm trying to behave myself , it 's my first time here . Uh , well , thank you . But my background -- I want to tell you story only briefly . So , then I decide instead , I will concentrate on my daughter . So , even though sometimes it 's still hard , I will share with you that it helps me to realize society is more tolerant , usually because of places like this , because of ideas like this , and people like you , with an open mind . Good evening . So , if you will indulge me , I will share quickly with you a bit of verse , which I memorized as a young girl at 16 years of age . So , all of that is to say that I like to believe that for every word intended as to render us deaf to one another , there is always a lyric connecting ears and hearts across the continents in rhyme . Thank you all very much . 