Chris has been so nice . I do n't know how you keep it up , Chris , I really do n't . So nice , all week . He 's the kind of man you could say to , `` Chris , I 'm really sorry , I 've crashed your car . And it gets worse , I crashed it into your house . Your house has caught fire . And what 's more , your wife has just run off with your best friend . '' And you know that Chris would say , `` Thank you . '' ( Laughter ) `` Thank you for sharing , that 's really interesting . One of the -- ( Applause ) Thank you for inviting us . So , what I thought I 'd do is -- in honor of Emmanuel -- is , what I can do is to launch today the first TED Global auction . Thank you . I 'm worried . Yesterday , David Deutsch , another one who covered most of what I was going to say . And Elaine Morgan yesterday , was n't she wonderful ? Fantastic . I was n't here on Tuesday . ( As Brown ) : `` Hello , can I tell you what happened in the woods back there ? Uh , no . ( As Tony Blair ) : `` Yeah , alright , come on , eh . Another thing Gordon could have mentioned in his speech to the Mansion House in 2002 -- that was to the building ; the people were n't listening . But we 're in a new world now . These extraordinary things , Icelandic Internet accounts . A lot of what I do -- I have to try and make sense of things before I can make nonsense of them . And the other one , of course , is Donald Rumsfeld , who said , `` There are the known knowns , the things we know we know . This whole , what Ben Bernanke has said , the chaotic unwinding of the world 's financial system , it 's about -- they do n't know , they did n't know what they were doing . So , it 's extraordinary . You like that one ? As opposed to you could see George Bush , well , what 's the metaphor there ? I think it would be something out of the aquatic ape thing , would n't it ? `` Well , you know I 'm sorry about that . `` You know , it 's the end of an error [ sic ] . But now he 's gone , and it 's great to see one of the -- arguably one of the worst speech makers in American history , now given way to one of the greatest , in Obama . But the interesting thing is , Gordon Brown was talking about Cicero , who said , people would listen to a speech , they said , `` Great speech . And you want a leader who inspires and challenges and makes you want to be a better citizen . And it 's great to have an American president who can say the word `` nuclear , '' let 's just point that out first . But he says , `` We want a nuclear-free world . So , where do we look for inspiration ? We 've still got Bill Clinton . So , there 's him . Or , any South Africans , we have Mandela to inspire . Very quickly : I was n't quite sure how to end this talk and then yesterday that man came up with a wonderful quote from the `` Japanese Essays on Idleness '' which said it 's nice to have something which is unfinished because it implies there is still room for growth . 