Chris Anderson : You were something of a mathematical phenom . You had already taught at Harvard and MIT at a young age . And then the NSA came calling . What was that about ? Jim Simons : Well the NSA -- that 's the National Security Agency -- they did n't exactly come calling . They had an operation at Princeton , where they hired mathematicians to attack secret codes and stuff like that . And I knew that existed . And they had a very good policy , because you could do half your time at your own mathematics , and at least half your time working on their stuff . And they paid a lot . So that was an irresistible pull . So , I went there . CA : You were a code-cracker . JS : I was . CA : Until you got fired . JS : Well , I did get fired . Yes . CA : How come ? JS : Well , how come ? I got fired because , well , the Vietnam War was on , and the boss of bosses in my organization was a big fan of the war and wrote a New York Times article , a magazine section cover story , about how we would win in Vietnam . And I did n't like that war , I thought it was stupid . And I wrote a letter to the Times , which they published , saying not everyone who works for Maxwell Taylor , if anyone remembers that name , agrees with his views . And I gave my own views ... CA : Oh , OK . I can see that would -- JS : ... which were different from General Taylor 's . But in the end , nobody said anything . But then , I was 29 years old at this time , and some kid came around and said he was a stringer from Newsweek magazine and he wanted to interview me and ask what I was doing about my views . And I told him , `` I 'm doing mostly mathematics now , and when the war is over , then I 'll do mostly their stuff . '' Then I did the only intelligent thing I 'd done that day -- I told my local boss that I gave that interview . And he said , `` What 'd you say ? '' And I told him what I said . And then he said , `` I 've got to call Taylor . '' He called Taylor ; that took 10 minutes . I was fired five minutes after that . CA : OK . JS : But it was n't bad . CA : It was n't bad , because you went on to Stony Brook and stepped up your mathematical career . You started working with this man here . Who is this ? JS : Oh , [ Shiing-Shen ] Chern . Chern was one of the great mathematicians of the century . I had known him when I was a graduate student at Berkeley . And I had some ideas , and I brought them to him and he liked them . Together , we did this work which you can easily see up there . There it is . CA : It led to you publishing a famous paper together . Can you explain at all what that work was ? JS : No . ( Laughter ) JS : I mean , I could explain it to somebody . ( Laughter ) CA : How about explaining this ? JS : But not many . CA : I think you told me it had something to do with spheres , so let 's start here . JS : Well , it did , but I 'll say about that work -- it did have something to do with that , but before we get to that -- that work was good mathematics . CA : This is so incredible . JS : God knows . ( Laughter ) But there 's a famous physicist named [ Eugene ] Wigner , and he wrote an essay on the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics . CA : So , here 's a mathematical piece of ingenuity . JS : Well , that 's a ball -- it 's a sphere , and it has a lattice around it -- you know , those squares . CA : And your own work took an idea like this and moved it into higher-dimensional theory , higher-dimensional objects , and found new invariances ? JS : Yes . CA : OK , so that 's at least given us a flavor of that amazing mind in there . JS : I did it by assembling a wonderful group of people . CA : Can we take a look at this ? Because here 's a typical graph of some commodity . JS : In the old days -- this is kind of a graph from the old days , commodities or currencies had a tendency to trend . CA : So you would test a bunch of lengths of trends in time and see whether , for example , a 10-day trend or a 15-day trend was predictive of what happened next . JS : Sure , you would try all those things and see what worked best . CA : Because everyone could see that . JS : We stayed ahead of the pack by finding other approaches -- shorter-term approaches to some extent . CA : You 're credited with doing something remarkable at Renaissance , which is building this culture , this group of people , who were n't just hired guns who could be lured away by money . JS : Well , I 'd hoped that might be true . CA : They made a lot of money . JS : I ca n't say that no one came because of the money . CA : What role did machine learning play in all this ? JS : In a certain sense , what we did was machine learning . CA : So these different predictive schemes can be really quite wild and unexpected . JS : Yes , length of dresses we did n't try . CA : What sort of things ? JS : Well , everything . CA : But any one anomaly might be just a random thing . JS : Any one anomaly might be a random thing ; however , if you have enough data you can tell that it 's not . CA : A lot of people look at the hedge fund industry now and are sort of ... shocked by it , by how much wealth is created there , and how much talent is going into it . JS : I think in the last three or four years , hedge funds have not done especially well . CA : Rumor has it you charge slightly higher fees than that . JS : We charged the highest fees in the world at one time . CA : Five and 44 . JS : We made good returns , yes . ( Laughter ) But at a certain point , as I think I told you , we bought out all the investors because there 's a capacity to the fund . CA : But should we worry about the hedge fund industry attracting too much of the world 's great mathematical and other talent to work on that , as opposed to the many other problems in the world ? JS : Well , it 's not just mathematical . CA : You 're at a phase in your life now where you 're actually investing , though , at the other end of the supply chain -- you 're actually boosting mathematics across America . JS : Well , Marilyn started -- there she is up there , my beautiful wife -- she started the foundation about 20 years ago . ( Laughter ) We started the foundation , just as a convenient way to give charity . CA : And so Math for America is basically investing in math teachers around the country , giving them some extra income , giving them support and coaching . JS : Yeah -- instead of beating up the bad teachers , which has created morale problems all through the educational community , in particular in math and science , we focus on celebrating the good ones and giving them status . ( Applause ) CA : Jim , here 's another project that you 've supported philanthropically : Research into origins of life , I guess . CA : So for you , personally , finding an answer to this question of where we came from , of how did this thing happen , that is something you would love to see . JS : Would love to see . CA : Jim , a couple of years ago , I got the chance to speak with Elon Musk , and I asked him the secret of his success , and he said taking physics seriously was it . JS : Well , math certainly works . CA : I just find it -- it 's an inspirational thought to me , that by taking knowledge seriously , so much more can come from it . Thank you . Jim Simons ! ( Applause ) 