Scientific breakthrough , the kind that can potentially save lives , can sometimes be lying right out in the open for us to discover , in the evolved , accumulated body of human anecdote , for example , or in the time-tested adaptations that we observe in the natural world around us . Science starts with observation , but the trick is to identify the patterns and signatures that we might otherwise dismiss as myth or coincidence , isolate them , and test them with scientific rigor . And when we do , the results will often surprise . Western Australia has had a particular problem with shark attacks over the last three years , unfortunately and tragically culminating in five fatal shark attacks in a 10-month period during that time . But Western Australia is not alone in this . The incident of shark engagements on humans is escalating worldwide . And so it 's not surprising , perhaps , that in July of this year , Shark Attack Mitigation Systems in collaboration with the University of Western Australia Oceans Institute made an announcement which captured the attention of the worldwide media and of ocean users worldwide , and that was around the development of technology to mitigate or reduce the risk of shark attack based on the science of what sharks can see . And I have for you today the story of that journey , but also the notion that science can be as powerful as a translator as it can be for invention . When we began this process , we were looking , it was about three years ago , and we 'd just had the first two fatal shark attacks in Western Australia , and by chance , in a previous role , I happened to be having dinner with Harry Butler . Now Harry Butler , who most Australians would know is a famous naturalist , had spent a lot of time in the marine environment . Harry Butler is a precursor , if you like , to the late Steve Irwin . When I asked him about what the solution to the problem might be , the answer was quite surprising . He said , `` Take a black wetsuit , band it in yellow stripes like a bumblebee , and you 'll be mimicking the warning systems of most marine species . '' I did n't think about that much at the time , and it was n't until the next three fatal shark attacks happened , and it caused me to think , maybe there 's some merit to this idea . And I turned to the web to see if there might be some clues . And it turns out the web is awash with this sort of evidence that supports this sort of thinking . So biologically , there are plenty of species that display banding or patterns , warning patterns , to either be cryptical in the water or warn against being attacked , not the least of which is the pilot fish which spends a big slab of its life around the business end of a shark . On the human side , Walter Starck , an oceanographer , has been painting his wetsuit since the 1970s , and anthropologically , Pacific island tribes painted themselves in bands in a sea snake ceremony to ward off the shark god . So what 's going on here ? Is this an idea lying wide out in the open for us to consider and define ? We know that sharks use a range of sensors when they engage , particularly for attack , but the sight sensor is the one that they use to identify the target , and particularly in the last number of meters before the attack . It makes sense to pay attention to the biological anecdote because that 's time-tested evolution over many millennia . But is n't human anecdote also an evolution of sorts , the idea that there 's a kernel of truth thought to be important , passed down from generation to generation , so that it actually ends up shaping human behavior ? I wanted to test this idea . I wanted to put some science to this anecdotal evidence , because if science could support this concept , then we might have at least part of the solution to shark attack right under our very nose . To do that , I needed some experts in shark vision and shark neurology , and a worldwide search , again , led to the University of W.A . on the doorstep here , with the Oceans Institute . And professor Nathan Hart and his team had just written a paper which tells us , confirms that predatory sharks see in black and white , or grayscale . So I called up Nathan , a little bit sheepishly , actually , about this idea that maybe we could use these patterns and shapes to produce a wetsuit to try and mitigate the risk of shark attack , and fortunately , he thought that was a good idea . So what ensued is a collaborative bit of research supported by the West Australian State Government . And we did three key things . The first is that we mapped the characteristics , the physical characteristics of the eyes of the three main predatory sharks , so the great white , tiger and bull shark . We did that genetically and we did that anatomically . The next thing we did was to understand , using complex computer modeling , what that eye can see at different depths , distances , light conditions , and water clarity in the ocean . And from there , we were able to pinpoint two key characteristics : what patterns and shapes would present the wearer as hidden or hard to make out in the water , cryptic , and what patterns and shapes might provide the greatest contrast but provide the greatest breakup of profile so that that person was n't confused for shark prey or shark food . The next thing we needed to do was to convert this into wetsuits that people might actually wear , and to that end , I invited Ray Smith , a surfer , industrial designer , wetsuit designer , and in fact the guy that designed the original Quiksilver logo , to come over and sit with the science team and interpret that science into aesthetic wetsuits that people might actually wear . And here 's an example of one of the first drawings . So this is what I call a `` do n't eat me '' wetsuit . So this takes that banding idea , takes that banding idea , it 's highly visible , provides a highly disruptive profile , and is intended to prevent the shark from considering that you would be ordinary food , and potentially even create confusion for the shark . And this one 's configured to go with a surfboard . You can see that dark , opaque panel on the front , and it 's particularly better for the surface , where being backlit and providing a silhouette is problematic . Second iteration is the cryptic wetsuit , or the one which attempts to hide the wearer in the water column . There are three panels on this suit , and in any given conditions , one or more of those panels will match the reflective spectra of the water so as to disappear fully or partially , leaving the last panel or panels to create a disruptive profile in the water column . And this one 's particularly well-suited to the dive configuration , so when you 're deeper under the water . So we knew that we had some really solid science here . We knew , if you wanted to stand out , you needed to look stripy , and we knew if you wanted to be cryptic , you needed to look like this . But the acid test is always going to be , how would sharks really behave in the context of these patterns and shapes . And testing to simulate a person in a wetsuit in the water with a predatory shark in a natural environment is actually a lot harder than you might think . ( Laughter ) So we have to bait the rig , because we need to get the statistical number of samples through to get the scientific evidence , and by baiting the rig , we 're obviously changing shark behavior . So here we 've got a four-meter tiger shark engaging the black control rig , which it had encountered about a minute and a half before . So , it 's important for us that all the testing is done independently , and the University of W.A . But I thought you might be interested in seeing what SAMS technology looks like embedded in a wetsuit , and to that end , for the first time , live , worldwide -- ( Laughter ) — I can show you what biological adaptation , science and design looks like in real life . So what have we done here ? Well , to my mind , rather than take a blank sheet and use science as a tool for invention , we 've paid attention to the biological evidence , we 've put importance to the human anecdotal evidence , and we 've used science as a tool for translation , translation of something that was already there into something that we can use for the benefit of mankind . Thank you . ( Applause ) 