There 's this quote by activist and punk rock musician Jello Biafra that I love . He says , `` Do n't hate the media . Be the media . '' I 'm an artist . I like working with media and technology because A , I 'm familiar with them and I like the power they hold . And B , I hate them and I 'm terrified of the power they hold . ( Laughter ) I remember watching , in 2003 , an interview between Fox News host Tony Snow and then-US Defense Secretary , Donald Rumsfeld . It 's estimated that between 150,000 to one million Iraqis , civilians , have died as a result of the US-led invasion in 2003 . Monuments to war , such as Maya Lin 's Vietnam Memorial , are often enormous in scale . This is my `` Notepad . So , for the last 5 years , I 've been taking pads of this paper , tons of this stuff , and smuggling it into the stationery supplies of the United States and the Coalition governments . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) I do n't have to tell you guys this is not the place to discuss how I did that . ( Laughter ) But also , I 've been meeting one-on-one with members and former members of the so-called Coalition of the Willing , who assisted in the invasion . And so , whenever I can , I meet with one of them , and I share the project with them . ( Video ) Matt Kenyon : May I give this to you ? This is a special legal tablet . Alberto Gonzalez : This is a special legal pad ? MK : Yes . MK : And all of the lines of the paper are actually -- AG : Are they going to disappear ? MK : No , they 're micro-printed text that contains the names of individual Iraqi civilians who have died since the invasion of Iraq . AG : Yeah . AG : Thank you . ( Laughter ) The way he says `` thank you '' really creeps me out . ( Laughter ) OK , so I 'd like each of you to look under your chairs . Thank you . ( Applause ) Tom Rielly : So , tell me Matt , how did this idea come into your head , of `` Notepad '' ? Matt Kenyon : I 'd just finished a project that dealt with the US Coalition side of the war and it was a black armband that was called the `` Improvised Empathetic Device '' which accumulated , in real time , the names , ranks , cause of death and location of US service members who had died overseas , and each time the Department of Defense or CENTCOM released their data , it would stab me in the arm . TR : Thank you so much . MK : Thank you . ( Applause ) 