So when I was eight years old , a new girl came to join the class , and she was so impressive , as the new girl always seems to be . She had vast quantities of very shiny hair and a cute little pencil case , super strong on state capitals , just a great speller . And I just curdled with jealousy that year , until I hatched my devious plan . So one day I stayed a little late after school , a little too late , and I lurked in the girls ' bathroom . When the coast was clear , I emerged , crept into the classroom , and took from my teacher 's desk the grade book . And then I did it . I fiddled with my rival 's grades , just a little , just demoted some of those A 's . All of those A 's . ( Laughter ) And I got ready to return the book to the drawer , when hang on , some of my other classmates had appallingly good grades too . And I am still baffled by my behavior . Let 's look at why they go so well together , the novel and jealousy , jealousy and Proust . In the first volume , Swann 's Way , the series of books , Swann , one of the main characters , is thinking very fondly of his mistress and how great she is in bed , and suddenly , in the course of a few sentences , and these are Proustian sentences , so they 're long as rivers , but in the course of a few sentences , he suddenly recoils and he realizes , `` Hang on , everything I love about this woman , somebody else would love about this woman . Now Swann and Proust , we have to admit , were notoriously jealous . And what does jealousy like ? Jealousy likes information . Freud would write about this later . The novel is very good on this point . Now Highsmith is a particular favorite of mine . But what do we do ? We ca n't go the Tom Ripley route . Does the novel show us a way out ? I 'm not sure . It 's one of the few times we see Holmes moved in the mysteries , and I find it very moving , this little scene , but it 's also mysterious , right ? It seems to treat jealousy as a problem of geometry , not emotion . But I like contingency plans . 