So , I 'm in Chile , in the Atacama desert , sitting in a hotel lobby , because that 's the only place that I can get a Wi-Fi connection , and I have this picture up on my screen , and a woman comes up behind me . She says , `` Oh , that 's beautiful . What is it ? Is that Jackson Pollock ? '' And unfortunately , I can be a little too honest . I said , `` No , it 's -- it 's penguin shit . '' ( Laughter ) And , you know , `` Excuse me ! '' And I could sense that she thought I was speaking synecdochically . ( Laughter ) So , I said , `` No , no , really -- it 's penguin shit . ( Laughter ) Because I had just been in the Falkland Islands taking pictures of penguins . At this point , she stops me , and she says , `` Who are you ? Wha -- what do you do ? '' And I was stuck , because I did n't have any way to describe what I do . So , some people are afraid of what I do . ( Laughter ) But I 'm not thinking `` monsteret '' is a good thing . And recently , I was in Easter Island , which is an incredibly beautiful place , and an incredibly mysterious place , because no matter where you go in Easter Island , you 're struck by these statues , called the moai . ( Laughter ) And , one thing that is n't a mystery , actually , was when I grew up -- because when I was a little kid , I 'd seen these pictures -- and I thought , `` Well , why that look on the face ? Why that brow ? '' I mean , it 's such a powerful thing . There 's many mysteries , these statues . Jo Anne and I have just embarked on a project to digitize them all , and we 're going to do a very high-res digitization , first because it 's a way of preserving them . I also have an archaeological project going on in Egypt . Now , this is the normal way it 's done . Changing into a totally different field , we do a lot of stuff in solid state physics , particularly in an area called metamaterials . We do a lot of work in biomedical fields . Now , I 'm also very interested in cooking . ( Laughter ) This is a high-speed centrifuge . So , another random thing I do is the search for extraterrestrial intelligence , or SETI . After the movie came out , of course , there was a lot of interest in SETI . ( Laughter ) So , the SETI Institute , with a little bit of help from me , and a lot of help from Paul Allen and a variety of other people , is building a dedicated radio telescope in Hat Creek , California , so they can do this SETI work . ( Laughter ) I mean , can you imagine ? E.T . So , you hike around and -- this is after you dig them up , they look like this . Now , this is what Tyrannosaurus rex looks like in my living room . Study of the ancient climate is very important . Now , I 'm also really big on photography . ( Laughter ) There 's a variety of things you can learn from watching whales have sex . ( Laughter ) The first thing you learn is the overwhelming importance of hands . ( Laughter ) I think Paul Simon is in the audience , and he has -- he may not realize it , but he wrote a song all about whale sex , `` Slip-Slidin ' Away . ( Laughter ) So -- where do you go putting all of these disparate pieces together ? You know , there 's a tremendous amount of wisdom in finding a great thing , passion in life , and focusing all your energy on it , and I 've never been able to do that . But ultimately , I decided that what I really ought to do is not fight being who I am , but embrace it . ( Applause ) 