As it turns out , when tens of millions of people are unemployed or underemployed , there 's a fair amount of interest in what technology might be doing to the labor force . And as I look at the conversation , it strikes me that it 's focused on exactly the right topic , and at the same time , it 's missing the point entirely . The topic that it 's focused on , the question is whether or not all these digital technologies are affecting people 's ability to earn a living , or , to say it a little bit different way , are the droids taking our jobs ? And there 's some evidence that they are . The Great Recession ended when American GDP resumed its kind of slow , steady march upward , and some other economic indicators also started to rebound , and they got kind of healthy kind of quickly . Corporate profits are quite high . In fact , if you include bank profits , they 're higher than they 've ever been . And business investment in gear , in equipment and hardware and software is at an all-time high . So the businesses are getting out their checkbooks . What they 're not really doing is hiring . So this red line is the employment-to-population ratio , in other words , the percentage of working age people in America who have work . And we see that it cratered during the Great Recession , and it has n't started to bounce back at all . But the story is not just a recession story . The decade that we 've just been through had relatively anemic job growth all throughout , especially when we compare it to other decades , and the 2000s are the only time we have on record where there were fewer people working at the end of the decade than at the beginning . This is not what you want to see . When you graph the number of potential employees versus the number of jobs in the country , you see the gap gets bigger and bigger over time , and then , during the Great Recession , it opened up in a huge way . I did some quick calculations . I took the last 20 years of GDP growth and the last 20 years of labor productivity growth and used those in a fairly straightforward way to try to project how many jobs the economy was going to need to keep growing , and this is the line that I came up with . Is that good or bad ? This is the government 's projection for the working age population going forward . So if these predictions are accurate , that gap is not going to close . The problem is , I do n't think these projections are accurate . In particular , I think my projection is way too optimistic , because when I did it , I was assuming that the future was kind of going to look like the past with labor productivity growth , and that 's actually not what I believe , because when I look around , I think that we ai n't seen nothing yet when it comes to technology 's impact on the labor force . Just in the past couple years , we 've seen digital tools display skills and abilities that they never , ever had before , and that , kind of , eat deeply into what we human beings do for a living . Let me give you a couple examples . Throughout all of history , if you wanted something translated from one language into another , you had to involve a human being . Now we have multi-language , instantaneous , automatic translation services available for free via many of our devices all the way down to smartphones . And if any of us have used these , we know that they 're not perfect , but they 're decent . Throughout all of history , if you wanted something written , a report or an article , you had to involve a person . Not anymore . This is an article that appeared in Forbes online a while back about Apple 's earnings . It was written by an algorithm . And it 's not decent , it 's perfect . A lot of people look at this and they say , `` Okay , but those are very specific , narrow tasks , and most knowledge workers are actually generalists , and what they do is sit on top of a very large body of expertise and knowledge and they use that to react on the fly to kind of unpredictable demands , and that 's very , very hard to automate . '' One of the most impressive knowledge workers in recent memory is a guy named Ken Jennings . He won the quiz show `` Jeopardy ! '' 74 times in a row , took home three million dollars . That 's Ken on the right getting beat three to one by Watson , the `` Jeopardy ! `` -playing supercomputer from IBM . So when we look at what technology can do to general knowledge workers , I start to think there might not be something so special about this idea of a generalist , particularly when we start doing things like hooking Siri up to Watson and having technologies that can understand what we 're saying and repeat speech back to us . Now , Siri is far from perfect , and we can make fun of her flaws , but we should also keep in mind that if technologies like Siri and Watson improve along a Moore 's Law trajectory , which they will , in six years , they 're not going to be two times better or four times better , they 'll be 16 times better than they are right now . So I start to think that a lot of knowledge work is going to be affected by this . And digital technologies are not just impacting knowledge work . They 're starting to flex their muscles in the physical world as well . I had the chance a little while back to ride in the Google autonomous car , which is as cool as it sounds . ( Laughter ) And I will vouch that it handled the stop-and-go traffic on U.S. 101 very smoothly . So , in short , yeah , the droids are coming for our jobs . But despite this challenge , I 'm personally , I 'm still a huge digital optimist , and I am supremely confident that the digital technologies that we 're developing now are going to take us into a utopian future , not a dystopian future . Now , I want to share some of the answers that I 've gotten in response to this question . So when you do this , and when you plot the data , you pretty quickly come to some weird conclusions . The steam engine , and the other associated technologies of the Industrial Revolution changed the world and influenced human history so much , that in the words of the historian Ian Morris , they made mockery out of all that had come before . Let me give you a couple examples . And over and over again , we see this happening in the technology-facilitated world . I hear once in a while , `` Okay , I 'll grant you that , but technology is still a tool for the rich world , and what 's not happening , these digital tools are not improving the lives of people at the bottom of the pyramid . So as I look around at all the evidence , and I think about the room that we have ahead of us , I become a huge digital optimist , and I start to think that this wonderful statement from the physicist Freeman Dyson is actually not hyperbole . So , yeah , the droids are taking our jobs , but focusing on that fact misses the point entirely . 