I was asked to come here and speak about creation . And I only have 15 minutes , and I see they 're counting already . And I can -- in 15 minutes , I think I can touch only a very rather janitorial branch of creation , which I call `` creativity . '' Creativity is how we cope with creation . While creation sometimes seems a bit un-graspable , or even pointless , creativity is always meaningful . See , for instance , in this picture . You know , creation is what put that dog in that picture , and creativity is what makes us see a chicken on his hindquarters . When you think about -- you know , creativity has a lot to do with causality too . You know , when I was a teenager , I was a creator . I just did things . Then I became an adult and started knowing who I was , and tried to maintain that persona -- I became creative . It was n't until I actually did a book and a retrospective exhibition , that I could track exactly -- looks like all the craziest things that I had done , all my drinking , all my parties -- they followed a straight line that brings me to the point that actually I 'm talking to you at this moment . Though it 's actually true , you know , the reason I 'm talking to you right now is because I was born in Brazil . If I was born in Monterey , probably would be in Brazil . You know , I was born in Brazil and grew up in the '70s under a climate of political distress , and I was forced to learn to communicate in a very specific way -- in a sort of a semiotic black market . You could n't really say what you wanted to say ; you had to invent ways of doing it . You did n't trust information very much . That led me to another step of why I 'm here today , is because I really liked media of all kinds . I was a media junkie , and eventually got involved with advertising . My first job in Brazil was actually to develop a way to improve the readability of billboards , and based on speed , angle of approach and actually blocks of text . It was very -- actually , it was a very good study , and got me a job in an ad agency . And they also decided that I had to -- to give me a very ugly Plexiglas trophy for it . And another point -- why I 'm here -- is that the day I went to pick up the Plexiglas trophy , I rented a tuxedo for the first time in my life , picked the thing -- did n't have any friends . On my way out , I had to break a fight apart . Somebody was hitting somebody else with brass knuckles . They were in tuxedos , and fighting . It was very ugly . And also -- advertising people do that all the time -- ( Laughter ) -- and I -- well , what happened is when I went back , it was on the way back to my car , the guy who got hit decided to grab a gun -- I do n't know why he had a gun -- and shoot the first person he decided to be his aggressor . Well , when I started working with my own work , I decided that I should n't do images . This is the clown skull . I wanted to take that into the realm of images , and I decided to make things that had the same identity conflicts . I had a chance to go to Florence , in -- I think it was '94 , and I saw Ghiberti 's `` Door of Paradise . And the same way the history of representation evolved from line drawings to shaded drawings . Departing from the lines , I decided to tackle the idea of points , like which is more similar to the type of representation that we find in photographs themselves . But another layer of representation was still introduced . Pictures of crowds are particularly interesting , because , you know , you go to that -- you try to figure out the threshold with something you can define very easily , like a face , goes into becoming just a texture . I bought a computer , and [ they ] told me it had millions of colors in it . This is something I used to do as a joke -- you know , make -- the same like -- Robert Smithson 's `` Spiral Jetty '' -- and then leaving traces , as if it was done on a tabletop . And at the same time , I was doing these very large constructions , being 150 meters away . And this is another thing that I did -- you know working -- everybody loves to watch somebody draw , but not many people have a chance to watch somebody draw in -- a lot of people at the same time , to evidence a single drawing . My interest in acting , especially bad acting , goes a long way . See , I think it 's not really about impression , making people fall for a really perfect illusion , as much as it is to make -- I usually work at the lowest threshold of visual illusion . 