( Music ) ( Applause ) Thank you very much . ( Applause ) Thank you . It 's a distinct privilege to be here . A few weeks ago , I saw a video on YouTube of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords at the early stages of her recovery from one of those awful bullets . This one entered her left hemisphere , and knocked out her Broca 's area , the speech center of her brain . And in this session , Gabby 's working with a speech therapist , and she 's struggling to produce some of the most basic words , and you can see her growing more and more devastated , until she ultimately breaks down into sobbing tears , and she starts sobbing wordlessly into the arms of her therapist . And after a few moments , her therapist tries a new tack , and they start singing together , and Gabby starts to sing through her tears , and you can hear her clearly able to enunciate the words to a song that describe the way she feels , and she sings , in one descending scale , she sings , `` Let it shine , let it shine , let it shine . '' And it 's a very powerful and poignant reminder of how the beauty of music has the ability to speak where words fail , in this case literally speak . Seeing this video of Gabby Giffords reminded me of the work of Dr. Gottfried Schlaug , one of the preeminent neuroscientists studying music and the brain at Harvard , and Schlaug is a proponent of a therapy called Melodic Intonation Therapy , which has become very popular in music therapy now . Schlaug found that his stroke victims who were aphasic , could not form sentences of three- or four-word sentences , but they could still sing the lyrics to a song , whether it was `` Happy Birthday To You '' or their favorite song by the Eagles or the Rolling Stones . And after 70 hours of intensive singing lessons , he found that the music was able to literally rewire the brains of his patients and create a homologous speech center in their right hemisphere to compensate for the left hemisphere 's damage . When I was 17 , I visited Dr. Schlaug 's lab , and in one afternoon he walked me through some of the leading research on music and the brain -- how musicians had fundamentally different brain structure than non-musicians , how music , and listening to music , could just light up the entire brain , from our prefrontal cortex all the way back to our cerebellum , how music was becoming a neuropsychiatric modality to help children with autism , to help people struggling with stress and anxiety and depression , how deeply Parkinsonian patients would find that their tremor and their gait would steady when they listened to music , and how late-stage Alzheimer 's patients , whose dementia was so far progressed that they could no longer recognize their family , could still pick out a tune by Chopin at the piano that they had learned when they were children . But I had an ulterior motive of visiting Gottfried Schlaug , and it was this : that I was at a crossroads in my life , trying to choose between music and medicine . I had just completed my undergraduate , and I was working as a research assistant at the lab of Dennis Selkoe , studying Parkinson 's disease at Harvard , and I had fallen in love with neuroscience . I wanted to become a surgeon . I wanted to become a doctor like Paul Farmer or Rick Hodes , these kind of fearless men who go into places like Haiti or Ethiopia and work with AIDS patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis , or with children with disfiguring cancers . I wanted to become that kind of Red Cross doctor , that doctor without borders . On the other hand , I had played the violin my entire life . Music for me was more than a passion . It was obsession . It was oxygen . I was lucky enough to have studied at the Juilliard School in Manhattan , and to have played my debut with Zubin Mehta and the Israeli philharmonic orchestra in Tel Aviv , and it turned out that Gottfried Schlaug had studied as an organist at the Vienna Conservatory , but had given up his love for music to pursue a career in medicine . And that afternoon , I had to ask him , `` How was it for you making that decision ? '' And he said that there were still times when he wished he could go back and play the organ the way he used to , and that for me , medical school could wait , but that the violin simply would not . And after two more years of studying music , I decided to shoot for the impossible before taking the MCAT and applying to medical school like a good Indian son to become the next Dr. Gupta . ( Laughter ) And I decided to shoot for the impossible and I took an audition for the esteemed Los Angeles Philharmonic . But a year later , I met another musician who had also studied at Juilliard , one who profoundly helped me find my voice and shaped my identity as a musician . And on the many times I saw Nathaniel on Skid Row , I witnessed how music was able to bring him back from his very darkest moments , from what seemed to me in my untrained eye to be the beginnings of a schizophrenic episode . But in the end , it was Nathaniel who showed me that if I was truly passionate about change , if I wanted to make a difference , I already had the perfect instrument to do it , that music was the bridge that connected my world and his . There 's a beautiful quote by the Romantic German composer Robert Schumann , who said , `` To send light into the darkness of men 's hearts , such is the duty of the artist . After one of our events at the Patton State Hospital in San Bernardino , a woman walked up to us and she had tears streaming down her face , and she had a palsy , she was shaking , and she had this gorgeous smile , and she said that she had never heard classical music before , she did n't think she was going to like it , she had never heard a violin before , but that hearing this music was like hearing the sunshine , and that nobody ever came to visit them , and that for the first time in six years , when she heard us play , she stopped shaking without medication . Suddenly , what we 're finding with these concerts , away from the stage , away from the footlights , out of the tuxedo tails , the musicians become the conduit for delivering the tremendous therapeutic benefits of music on the brain to an audience that would never have access to this room , would never have access to the kind of music that we make . I 'd like to end with a quote by John Keats , the Romantic English poet , a very famous quote that I 'm sure all of you know . 