We are built out of very small stuff , and we are embedded in a very large cosmos , and the fact is that we are not very good at understanding reality at either of those scales , and that 's because our brains have n't evolved to understand the world at that scale . Instead , we 're trapped on this very thin slice of perception right in the middle . But it gets strange , because even at that slice of reality that we call home , we 're not seeing most of the action that 's going on . So take the colors of our world . This is light waves , electromagnetic radiation that bounces off objects and it hits specialized receptors in the back of our eyes . But we 're not seeing all the waves out there . In fact , what we see is less than a 10 trillionth of what 's out there . So you have radio waves and microwaves and X-rays and gamma rays passing through your body right now and you 're completely unaware of it , because you do n't come with the proper biological receptors for picking it up . There are thousands of cell phone conversations passing through you right now , and you 're utterly blind to it . Now , it 's not that these things are inherently unseeable . Snakes include some infrared in their reality , and honeybees include ultraviolet in their view of the world , and of course we build machines in the dashboards of our cars to pick up on signals in the radio frequency range , and we built machines in hospitals to pick up on the X-ray range . But you ca n't sense any of those by yourself , at least not yet , because you do n't come equipped with the proper sensors . Now , what this means is that our experience of reality is constrained by our biology , and that goes against the common sense notion that our eyes and our ears and our fingertips are just picking up the objective reality that 's out there . Instead , our brains are sampling just a little bit of the world . Now , across the animal kingdom , different animals pick up on different parts of reality . So in the blind and deaf world of the tick , the important signals are temperature and butyric acid ; in the world of the black ghost knifefish , its sensory world is lavishly colored by electrical fields ; and for the echolocating bat , its reality is constructed out of air compression waves . That 's the slice of their ecosystem that they can pick up on , and we have a word for this in science . It 's called the umwelt , which is the German word for the surrounding world . Now , presumably , every animal assumes that its umwelt is the entire objective reality out there , because why would you ever stop to imagine that there 's something beyond what we can sense . Instead , what we all do is we accept reality as it 's presented to us . Let 's do a consciousness-raiser on this . Imagine that you are a bloodhound dog . Your whole world is about smelling . You 've got a long snout that has 200 million scent receptors in it , and you have wet nostrils that attract and trap scent molecules , and your nostrils even have slits so you can take big nosefuls of air . Everything is about smell for you . So one day , you stop in your tracks with a revelation . You look at your human owner and you think , `` What is it like to have the pitiful , impoverished nose of a human ? ( Laughter ) What is it like when you take a feeble little noseful of air ? How can you not know that there 's a cat 100 yards away , or that your neighbor was on this very spot six hours ago ? '' ( Laughter ) So because we 're humans , we 've never experienced that world of smell , so we do n't miss it , because we are firmly settled into our umwelt . So we already know that we can marry our technology to our biology , because there are hundreds of thousands of people walking around with artificial hearing and artificial vision . Now , how do we understand that ? Well , here 's the big secret : Your brain is not hearing or seeing any of this . But here 's the key point : Your brain does n't know , and it does n't care , where it gets the data from . So I call this the P.H . Okay . Now , that might sound speculative , but the first paper demonstrating this was published in the journal Nature in 1969 . The most modern incarnation is called the brainport , and this is a little electrogrid that sits on your tongue , and the video feed gets turned into these little electrotactile signals , and blind people get so good at using this that they can throw a ball into a basket , or they can navigate complex obstacle courses . So my interest in my lab is sensory substitution for the deaf , and this is a project I 've undertaken with a graduate student in my lab , Scott Novich , who is spearheading this for his thesis . So , we 've been testing this with deaf people now , and it turns out that after just a little bit of time , people can start feeling , they can start understanding the language of the vest . So this is Jonathan . Scott Novich : You . David Eagleman : So Scott says a word , Jonathan feels it on the vest , and he writes it on the board . SN : Where . DE : Jonathan is able to translate this complicated pattern of vibrations into an understanding of what 's being said . SN : Touch . DE : Now , he 's not doing this -- ( Applause ) -- Jonathan is not doing this consciously , because the patterns are too complicated , but his brain is starting to unlock the pattern that allows it to figure out what the data mean , and our expectation is that , after wearing this for about three months , he will have a direct perceptual experience of hearing in the same way that when a blind person passes a finger over braille , the meaning comes directly off the page without any conscious intervention at all . Now , we 've been very encouraged by our results with sensory substitution , but what we 've been thinking a lot about is sensory addition . So here 's an experiment we 're doing in the lab . Here 's another thing we 're doing : During the talks this morning , we 've been automatically scraping Twitter for the TED2015 hashtag , and we 've been doing an automated sentiment analysis , which means , are people using positive words or negative words or neutral ? And while this has been going on , I have been feeling this , and so I am plugged in to the aggregate emotion of thousands of people in real time , and that 's a new kind of human experience , because now I can know how everyone 's doing and how much you 're loving this . We 're also expanding the umvelt of pilots . And that 's just the beginning . So I think there 's really no end to the possibilities on the horizon for human expansion . So the key is this : As we move into the future , we 're going to increasingly be able to choose our own peripheral devices . Thank you . ( Applause ) Chris Anderson : Can you feel it ? DE : Yeah . Actually , this was the first time I felt applause on the vest . CA : Twitter 's going crazy . DE : Well , that 's right , I would n't have to write to NIH anymore . CA : Well look , just to be skeptical for a minute , I mean , this is amazing , but is n't most of the evidence so far that sensory substitution works , not necessarily that sensory addition works ? I mean , is n't it possible that the blind person can see through their tongue because the visual cortex is still there , ready to process , and that that is needed as part of it ? DE : That 's a great question . CA : If this checks out , you 're going to be deluged . CA : David Eagleman , that was one mind-blowing talk . DE : Thank you , Chris . 