Well , now we 're going to the Bahamas to meet a remarkable group of dolphins that I 've been working with in the wild for the last 28 years . Now I 'm interested in dolphins because of their large brains and what they might be doing with all that brainpower in the wild . And we know they use some of that brainpower for just living complicated lives , but what do we really know about dolphin intelligence ? Well , we know a few things . We know that their brain-to-body ratio , which is a physical measure of intelligence , is second only to humans . Cognitively , they can understand artificially-created languages . And they pass self-awareness tests in mirrors . And in some parts of the world , they use tools , like sponges to hunt fish . But there 's one big question left : do they have a language , and if so , what are they talking about ? So decades ago , not years ago , I set out to find a place in the world where I could observe dolphins underwater to try to crack the code of their communication system . Now in most parts of the world , the water 's pretty murky , so it 's very hard to observe animals underwater , but I found a community of dolphins that live in these beautiful , clear , shallow sandbanks of the Bahamas which are just east of Florida . And they spend their daytime resting and socializing in the safety of the shallows , but at night , they go off the edge and hunt in deep water . Now , it 's not a bad place to be a researcher , either . So we go out for about five months every summer in a 20-meter catamaran , and we live , sleep and work at sea for weeks at a time . My main tool is an underwater video with a hydrophone , which is an underwater microphone , and this is so I can correlate sound and behavior . And most of our work 's pretty non-invasive . We try to follow dolphin etiquette while we 're in the water , since we 're actually observing them physically in the water . Now , Atlantic spotted dolphins are a really nice species to work with for a couple of reasons . They 're born without spots , and they get spots with age , and they go through pretty distinct developmental phases , so that 's fun to track their behavior . And by about the age of 15 , they 're fully spotted black and white . Now the mother you see here is Mugsy . She 's 35 years old in this shot , but dolphins can actually live into their early 50s . And like all the dolphins in our community , we photographed Mugsy and tracked her little spots and nicks in her dorsal fin , and also the unique spot patterns as she matured over time . Now , young dolphins learn a lot as they 're growing up , and they use their teenage years to practice social skills , and at about the age of nine , the females become sexually mature , so they can get pregnant , and the males mature quite a bit later , at around 15 years of age . And dolphins are very promiscuous , and so we have to determine who the fathers are , so we do paternity tests by collecting fecal material out of the water and extracting DNA . So what that means is , after 28 years , we are tracking three generations , including grandmothers and grandfathers . Now , dolphins are natural acousticians . They make sounds 10 times as high and hear sounds 10 times as high as we do . But they have other communication signals they use . They have good vision , so they use body postures to communicate . They have taste , not smell . And they have touch . And sound can actually be felt in the water , because the acoustic impedance of tissue and water 's about the same . So dolphins can buzz and tickle each other at a distance . Now , we do know some things about how sounds are used with certain behaviors . Now , the signature whistle is a whistle that 's specific to an individual dolphin , and it 's like a name . ( Dolphin whistling noises ) And this is the best-studied sound , because it 's easy to measure , really , and you 'd find this whistle when mothers and calves are reuniting , for example . Another well studied sound are echolocation clicks . This is the dolphin 's sonar . ( Dolphin echolocation noises ) And they use these clicks to hunt and feed . But they can also tightly pack these clicks together into buzzes and use them socially . For example , males will stimulate a female during a courtship chase . You know , I 've been buzzed in the water . ( Laughter ) Do n't tell anyone . So dolphins are also political animals , so they have to resolve conflicts . Now this is some video of a typical dolphin fight . Now , in the Bahamas , we also have resident bottlenose that interact socially with the spotted dolphins . Now , it 's important to remember that you 're only hearing the human-audible parts of dolphin sounds , and dolphins make ultrasonic sounds , and we use special equipment in the water to collect these sounds . Now , these are three spectragrams . Now , one way to crack the code is to interpret these signals and figure out what they mean , but it 's a difficult job , and we actually do n't have a Rosetta Stone yet . And so we started thinking , well , would n't it be neat to build some technology that would allow the dolphins to request these things in real time , their favorite toys ? So the original vision was to have a keyboard hanging from the boat attached to a computer , and the divers and dolphins would activate the keys on the keypad and happily exchange information and request toys from each other . So we built a portable keyboard that we could push through the water , and we labeled four objects they like to play with , the scarf , rope , sargassum , and also had a bow ride , which is a fun activity for a dolphin . Now this is video of a session . ( Applause ) So this is only once . And because of this , we really decided we needed some more sophisticated technology . And we 're at prototype stage , but this is how we hope it will play out . Now , how far can this kind of communication go ? Well , CHAT is designed specifically to empower the dolphins to request things from us . Now it may be that all our mobile technology will actually be the same technology that helps us communicate with another species down the road . I mean , imagine what it would be like to really understand the mind of another intelligent species on the planet . Thank you . ( Applause ) 