I 've got a great idea that 's going to change the world . It 's fantastic , it 's going to blow your mind . It 's my beautiful baby . Here 's the thing , everybody loves a beautiful baby . I mean , I was a beautiful baby . Here 's me and my dad a couple days after I was born . So in the world of product design , the beautiful baby 's like the concept car . It 's the knock-out . You see it and you go , `` Oh , my God . I 'd buy that in a second ! '' So why is it that this year 's new cars look pretty much exactly like last year 's new cars ? ( Laughter ) What went wrong between the design studio and the factory ? Today I do n't want to talk about beautiful babies , I want to talk about the awkward adolescence of design -- those sort of dorky teenage years where you 're trying to figure out how the world works . I 'm going to start with an example from some work that we did on newborn health . So this is a newborn intensive care unit in Kathmandu , Nepal . So this seemed like a problem that we could do something about . So the idea here is , unlike the concept car , we want to marry something beautiful with something that actually works . Here 's the bad news : The only baby ever actually put inside the NeoNurture Incubator was this kid during a Time magazine photo shoot . So it turns out that design for inspiration does n't really -- I guess what I would say is , for us , for what I want to do , it 's either too slow or it just does n't work , it 's ineffective . Well it turns out there 's this whole constellation of people who have to be involved in a product for it to be successful : manufacturing , financing , distribution , regulation . Who is our customer ? Well here 's an example . Second , we took that lesson and tried to push it into our next project . So we started with them saying , `` Well what do you want ? What 's a problem you want to solve ? '' And they said , `` Well let 's work on newborn jaundice . There is another cure . So here 's an example . We see other examples of problems like this . We have to think like existentialists . So similarly , when we think about our partner MTTS , they 've made some amazing technologies for treating newborn illnesses . So thinking about outcomes , it turns out appearances matter . So that 's the design for manufacture question . ( Laughter ) So the idea here is we say , you want to make it hard to use wrong . Last story here : I 've got a friend in India who told me that you have n't really tested a piece of electronic technology for distribution in Asia until you 've trained a cockroach to climb in and pee on every single little component on the inside . ( Laughter ) You think it 's funny . These are the kinds of lessons -- as awkward as it was to be a pretty goofy teenager , much worse to be a frustrated designer . I have to think like an existentialist . I got into this business designing products . Thank you . ( Applause ) 