I was one of the founding members of the Axis of Evil Comedy Tour . The other founding members included Ahmed Ahmed , who is an Egyptian-American , who actually had the idea to go to the Middle East and try it out . Before we went out as a tour , he went out solo and did it first . Then there was Aron Kader , who was the Palestinian-American . And then there was me , the Iranian-American of the group . Now , being Iranian-American presents its own set of problems , as you know . Those two countries are n't getting along these days . So it causes a lot of inner conflict , you know , like part of me likes me , part of me hates me . Part of me thinks I should have a nuclear program , the other part thinks I ca n't be trusted with one . These are dilemmas I have every day . But I was born in Iran ; I 'm now an American citizen , which means I have the American passport , which means I can travel . Because if you only have the Iranian passport , you 're kind of limited to the countries you can go to with open arms , you know -- Syria , Venezuela , North Korea . ( Laughter ) So anyone who 's gotten their passport in America will tell you , when you get your passport , it still says what country you were born in . But what 's interesting is , I 've never had trouble traveling in any other Western countries with my American passport , even though it says , `` Born in Iran . But as you can see , when I talk , I speak with an American accent , which you would think as an Iranian-American actor , I should be able to play any part , good , bad , what have you . But the fact is , there 's good people everywhere . ( Laughter ) But what was interesting was , the Pakistani Muslim guy -- see he gives a bad name to Muslims and Middle Easterners and Pakistanis from all over the world . But the fact is , I 've been lucky to get a chance to perform all over the world , and I did a lot of shows in the Middle East . The other thing you learn sometimes when you travel to these countries in the Middle East , sometimes in Latin American countries , South American countries -- a lot of times when they build stuff , there 's no rules and regulations . But one of the things I try to do with my stand-up is to break stereotypes . ( Applause ) ( Laughter ) I 'll leave you guys with this : I try , with my stand-up , to break stereotypes , present Middle Easterners in a positive light -- Muslims in a positive light -- and I hope that in the coming years , more film and television programs come out of Hollywood presenting us in a positive light . ( Laughter ) Til then , I 'll keep telling jokes . ( Applause ) 