I want to share some personal friends and stories with you that I 've actually never talked about in public before to help illustrate the idea and the need and the hope for us to reinvent our health care system around the world . Twenty-four years ago , I had -- a sophomore in college , I had a series of fainting spells . No alcohol was involved . And I ended up in student health , and they ran some labwork and came back right away , and said , `` Kidney problems . '' And before I knew it , I was involved and thrown into this six months of tests and trials and tribulations with six doctors across two hospitals in this clash of medical titans to figure out which one of them was right about what was wrong with me . And I 'm sitting in a waiting room some time later for an ultrasound , and all six of these doctors actually show up in the room at once , and I 'm like , `` Uh oh , this is bad news . '' And their diagnosis was this : They said , `` You have two rare kidney diseases that are going to actually destroy your kidneys eventually , you have cancer-like cells in your immune system that we need to start treatment right away , and you 'll never be eligible for a kidney transplant , and you 're not likely to live more than two or three years . '' Now , with the gravity of this doomsday diagnosis , it just sucked me in immediately , as if I began preparing myself as a patient to die according to the schedule that they had just given to me , until I met a patient named Verna in a waiting room , who became a dear friend , and she grabbed me one day and took me off to the medical library and did a bunch of research on these diagnoses and these diseases , and said , `` Eric , these people who get this are normally in their '70s and '80s . They do n't know anything about you . Wake up . Take control of your health and get on with your life . '' And I did . Now , these people making these proclamations to me were not bad people . In fact , these professionals were miracle workers , but they 're working in a flawed , expensive system that 's set up the wrong way . It 's dependent on hospitals and clinics for our every care need . It 's dependent on specialists who just look at parts of us . It 's dependent on guesswork of diagnoses and drug cocktails , and so something either works or you die . And it 's dependent on passive patients who just take it and do n't ask any questions . Now the problem with this model is that it 's unsustainable globally . It 's unaffordable globally . We need to invent what I call a personal health system . So what does this personal health system look like , and what new technologies and roles is it going to entail ? Now , I 'm going to start by actually sharing with you a new friend of mine , Libby , somebody I 've become quite attached to over the last six months . This is Libby , or actually , this is an ultrasound image of Libby . This is the kidney transplant I was never supposed to have . Now , this is an image that we shot a couple of weeks ago for today , and you 'll notice , on the edge of this image , there 's some dark spots there , which was really concerning to me . So we 're going to actually do a live exam to sort of see how Libby 's doing . This is not a wardrobe malfunction . I have to take my belt off here . Do n't you in the front row worry or anything . ( Laughter ) I 'm going to use a device from a company called Mobisante . And I want to actually introduce you to Dr. Batiuk , who 's another friend of mine . Thomas Batuik : Hi there , Eric . Eric Dishman : I 'm good . TB : Okay . ED : All right.TB : Okay . ED : All right . TB : Yeah , let 's do that . ED : All right . TB : Many people after a kidney transplant will develop a little fluid collection around the kidney . ED : All right . TB : Good choice.ED : All right , thanks , Dr. Batiuk . Now there 's really three pillars of this personal health I want to talk to you about now , and it 's care anywhere , care networking and care customization . So let 's start with care anywhere . Now , if we 've got all these networked devices that are helping us to do care anywhere , it stands to reason that we also need a team to be able to interact with all of that stuff , and that leads to the second pillar I want to talk about , care networking . And here 's the most important part . Now , the last thing that I want to talk to you about is care customization , because if you 've got care anywhere and you 've got care networking , those are going to go a long way towards improving our health care system , but there 's still too much guesswork . Now , I 've had two examples I want to quickly share with you of this kind of care customization on my own journey . So these three pillars of personal health , care anywhere , care networking , care customization , are happening in pieces now , but this vision will completely fail if we do n't step up as caregivers and as patients to take on new roles . And it 's in that spirit that I want to introduce you to one last friend , very quickly . ( Applause ) So Tracey , just tell us a little bit quickly about what the donor experience was like with you . Tracey Gamley : For me , it was really easy . ED : Well , I probably will never get a chance to say this to you in such a large audience ever again . ( Applause ) This TED stage and all of the TED stages are often about celebrating innovation and celebrating new technologies , and I 've done that here today , and I 've seen amazing things coming from TED speakers , I mean , my gosh , artificial kidneys , even printable kidneys , that are coming . ( Applause ) 