To give me an idea of how many of you here may find what I 'm about to tell you of practical value , let me ask you please to raise your hands : Who here is either over 65 years old or hopes to live past age 65 or has parents or grandparents who did live or have lived past 65 , raise your hands please . ( Laughter ) Okay . I 'm going to talk about growing older in traditional societies . Those tribal societies , which constituted all human societies for most of human history , are far more diverse than are our modern , recent , big societies . Most old people in the U.S. end up living separately from their children and from most of their friends of their earlier years , and often they live in separate retirements homes for the elderly , whereas in traditional societies , older people instead live out their lives among their children , their other relatives , and their lifelong friends . At the worst extreme , many traditional societies get rid of their elderly in one of four increasingly direct ways : by neglecting their elderly and not feeding or cleaning them until they die , or by abandoning them when the group moves , or by encouraging older people to commit suicide , or by killing older people . At the opposite extreme in treatment of the elderly , the happy extreme , are the New Guinea farming societies where I 've been doing my fieldwork for the past 50 years , and most other sedentary traditional societies around the world . There are two main sets of reasons for this variation among societies in their treatment of old people . First , as regards usefulness , older people continue to perform useful services . Finally , older people in traditional societies have a huge significance that would never occur to us in our modern , literate societies , where our sources of information are books and the Internet . The other set of reasons for variation in the treatment of the elderly is the society 's cultural values . Well , what has changed in the status of the elderly today compared to their status in traditional societies ? There have been a few changes for the better and more changes for the worse . What can we do to improve the lives of the elderly in the U.S. , and to make better use of their value ? That 's a huge problem . The remaining value of older people that I 'll mention involves recognizing that while there are many things that older people can no longer do , there are other things that they can do better than younger people . Paradoxically nowadays , when we have more elderly people than ever before , living healthier lives and with better medical care than ever before , old age is in some respects more miserable than ever before . Those are just some examples of what we can learn from traditional societies . Thank you . ( Applause ) 