Hi there . I 'm going to be talking a little bit about music , machines and life . Or , more specifically , what we learned from the creation of a very large and complicated machine for a music video . Some of you may recognize this image . This is the opening frame of the video that we created . We 'll be showing the video at the end , but before we do , I want to talk a little bit about what it is that they wanted . Now , when we first started talking to OK Go -- the name of the song is `` This Too Shall Pass '' -- we were really excited because they expressed interest in building a machine that they could dance with . And we were very excited about this because , of course , they have a history of dancing with machines . They 're responsible for this video , `` Here It Goes Again . '' 50-million-plus views on YouTube . Four guys dancing on treadmills , no cuts , just a static camera . A fantastically viral and wonderful video . So we were really excited about working with them . And we sort of started talking about what it is that they wanted . And they explained that they wanted kind of a Rube Goldberg machine . Now , for those of you who do n't know , a Rube Goldberg machine is a complicated contraption , an incredibly over-engineered piece of machinery that accomplishes a relatively simple task . So we were excited by this idea , and we started talking about exactly what it would look like . And we came up with some parameters , because , you know , building a Rube Goldberg machine has limitations , but it also is pretty wide open . And we wanted to make sure that we did something that would work for a music video . So we came up with a list of requirements , the `` 10 commandments , '' and they were , in order of ascending difficulty : The first is `` No magic . '' Everything that happened on screen had to be very easily understood by a typical viewer . The rule of thumb was that , if my mother could n't understand it , then we could n't use it in the video . They wanted band integration , that is , the machine acting upon the band members , specifically not the other way around . They wanted the machine action to follow the song feeling . So as the song picks up emotion , so should the machine get grander in its process . They wanted us to make use of the space . So we have this 10,000-square-foot warehouse we were using , divided between two floors . It included an exterior loading dock . We used all of that , including a giant hole in the floor that we actually descended the camera and cameraman through . They wanted it messy , and we were happy to oblige . The machine itself would start the music . So the machine would get started , it would travel some distance , reacting along the way , hit play on an iPod or a tape deck or something that would start playback . And the machine would maintain synchronization throughout . And speaking of synchronization , they wanted it to sync to the rhythm and to hit specific beats along the way . Okay . ( Laughter ) They wanted it to end precisely on time . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Okay . So what did we learn from all of this ? Well , having completed this , we have the opportunity to step back and reflect on some of the things . What else ? Planning is incredibly important . Life can be messy . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) And now to introduce their music video , we have OK Go . OK Go : An introduction . ( Music ) ♫ You know you ca n't keep letting it get you down ♫ ♫ And you ca n't keep dragging that dead weight around ♫ ♫ If there ai n't all that much to lug around ♫ ♫ Better run like hell when you hit the ground ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ You ca n't stop these kids from dancing ♫ ♫ Why would you want to ? ♫ ♫ Especially when you 're already getting yours ♫ ♫ Cuz if your mind do n't move and your knees do n't bend ♫ ♫ Well do n't go blaming the kids again ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ Let it go ♫ ♫ This too shall pass ♫ ♫ Let it go ♫ ♫ This too shall pass ♫ ♫ You know you ca n't keep letting it get you down ♫ ♫ No , you ca n't keep letting it get you down ♫ ♫ Let it go ♫ ♫ This too shall pass ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ( Cheering ) 