Six thousand miles of road , 600 miles of subway track , 400 miles of bike lanes and a half a mile of tram track , if you 've ever been to Roosevelt Island . These are the numbers that make up the infrastructure of New York City . These are the statistics of our infrastructure . They 're the kind of numbers you can find released in reports by city agencies . For example , the Department of Transportation will probably tell you how many miles of road they maintain . The MTA will boast how many miles of subway track there are . Most city agencies give us statistics . This is from a report this year from the Taxi and Limousine Commission , where we learn that there 's about 13,500 taxis here in New York City . Pretty interesting , right ? But did you ever think about where these numbers came from ? Because for these numbers to exist , someone at the city agency had to stop and say , hmm , here 's a number that somebody might want want to know . Here 's a number that our citizens want to know . So they go back to their raw data , they count , they add , they calculate , and then they put out reports , and those reports will have numbers like this . The problem is , how do they know all of our questions ? We have lots of questions . In fact , in some ways there 's literally an infinite number of questions that we can ask about our city . The agencies can never keep up . So the paradigm is n't exactly working , and I think our policymakers realize that , because in 2012 , Mayor Bloomberg signed into law what he called the most ambitious and comprehensive open data legislation in the country . In a lot of ways , he 's right . In the last two years , the city has released 1,000 datasets on our open data portal , and it 's pretty awesome . So you go and look at data like this , and instead of just counting the number of cabs , we can start to ask different questions . So I had a question . When 's rush hour in New York City ? It can be pretty bothersome . When is rush hour exactly ? And I thought to myself , these cabs are n't just numbers , these are GPS recorders driving around in our city streets recording each and every ride they take . There 's data there , and I looked at that data , and I made a plot of the average speed of taxis in New York City throughout the day . You can see that from about midnight to around 5:18 in the morning , speed increases , and at that point , things turn around , and they get slower and slower and slower until about 8:35 in the morning , when they end up at around 11 and a half miles per hour . The average taxi is going 11 and a half miles per hour on our city streets , and it turns out it stays that way for the entire day . ( Laughter ) So I said to myself , I guess there 's no rush hour in New York City . But there 's a story behind this data . Now , not every dataset is behind a FOIL Request . But there 's a story behind this data as well . So what happened is , the data that you just saw was actually on a PDF . Now , the good news is that the de Blasio administration actually recently released this data a few months ago , and so now we can actually have access to it , but there 's a lot of data still entombed in PDF . Now , there 's a lot of data that 's not hidden in PDFs . And this is not the kind of fact that you 're going to see boasted in a city report , right ? It 's not going to be the front page on nyc.gov . And we 're getting there , because there 's this website that Socrata makes called the Open Data Portal NYC . This is a map of fire hydrants in New York City , but not just any fire hydrants . So I wrote about this on my blog , on I Quant NY , and the DOT responded , and they said , `` While the DOT has not received any complaints about this location , we will review the roadway markings and make any appropriate alterations . But then , a few weeks later , something incredible happened . And by the way , who are we empowering with this ? Because it 's not just John Krauss and it 's not just Chris Whong . Thank you . ( Applause ) 