We humans have always been very concerned about the health of our bodies , but we have n't always been that good at figuring out what 's important . Take the ancient Egyptians , for example : very concerned about the body parts they thought they 'd need in the afterlife , but they left some parts out . This part , for example . Although they very carefully preserved the stomach , the lungs , the liver , and so forth , they just mushed up the brain , drained it out through the nose , and threw it away , which makes sense , really , because what does a brain do for us anyway ? But imagine if there were a kind of neglected organ in our bodies that weighed just as much as the brain and in some ways was just as important to who we are , but we knew so little about and treated with such disregard . And imagine if , through new scientific advances , we were just beginning to understand its importance to how we think of ourselves . Would n't you want to know more about it ? Well , it turns out that we do have something just like that : our gut , or rather , its microbes . But it 's not just the microbes in our gut that are important . Microbes all over our body turn out to be really critical to a whole range of differences that make different people who we are . So for example , have you ever noticed how some people get bitten by mosquitos way more often than others ? It turns out that everyone 's anecdotal experience out camping is actually true . For example , I seldom get bitten by mosquitos , but my partner Amanda attracts them in droves , and the reason why is that we have different microbes on our skin that produce different chemicals that the mosquitos detect . Now , microbes are also really important in the field of medicine . So , for example , what microbes you have in your gut determine whether particular painkillers are toxic to your liver . They also determine whether or not other drugs will work for your heart condition . And , if you 're a fruit fly , at least , your microbes determine who you want to have sex with . We have n't demonstrated this in humans yet but maybe it 's just a matter of time before we find out . ( Laughter ) So microbes are performing a huge range of functions . What my lab does is develop computational techniques that allow us to take all these terabytes of sequence data and turn them into something that 's a bit more useful as a map , and so when we do that with the human microbiome data from 250 healthy volunteers , it looks like this . And this is not to say that two people look basically the same in the same body habitat , either . So these different microbes have all these different kinds of functions that I told you about , everything from digesting food to involvement in different kinds of diseases , metabolizing drugs , and so forth . So where do our microbes come from in the first place ? Well if , as I do , you have dogs or kids , you probably have some dark suspicions about that , all of which are true , by the way . It turns out that our first microbial communities depend a lot on how we 're born . When my own daughter was born a couple of years ago by emergency C-section , we took matters into our own hands and made sure she was coated with those vaginal microbes that she would have gotten naturally . So how we 're born has a tremendous effect on what microbes we have initially , but where do we go after that ? What I 'm showing you again here is this map of the Human Microbiome Project Data , so each point represents a sample from one body site from one of 250 healthy adults . What you can see , and remember each step in this is just one week , what you can see is that week to week , the change in the microbial community of the feces of this one child , the differences week to week are much greater than the differences between individual healthy adults in the Human Microbiome Project cohort , which are those brown dots down at the bottom . So this is really interesting because it raises fundamental questions about what happens when we intervene at different ages in a child 's life . So I mentioned that microbes have all these important functions , and they 've also now , just over the past few years , been connected to a whole range of different diseases , including inflammatory bowel disease , heart disease , colon cancer , and even obesity . And then in mice , we can do a lot more . So this is really remarkable , right ? The implication is that microbes can affect mammalian behavior . We can also do this for malnutrition . So I think it 's really important that everyone has a chance to participate in this discovery . So why might we want to do this ? Well , it turns out that microbes are not just important for finding out where we are in terms of our health , but they can actually cure disease . So we 're just at the beginning of this discovery . Thank you . ( Applause ) 