It would be nice to be objective in life , in many ways . The problem is that we have these color-tinted glasses as we look at all kinds of situations . For example , think about something as simple as beer . If I gave you a few beers to taste and I asked you to rate them on intensity and bitterness , different beers would occupy different space . But what if we tried to be objective about it ? In the case of beer , it would be very simple . What if we did a blind taste ? Well , if we did the same thing , you tasted the same beer , now in the blind taste , things would look slightly different . Most of the beers will go into one place . You will basically not be able to distinguish them , and the exception , of course , will be Guinness . ( Laughter ) Similarly , we can think about physiology . So all of those are cases in which our preconceived notions and our expectations color our world . Okay , here 's what lots of Americans tell us . Now , what 's reality ? Reality is slightly different . What about what we want ? How do we even figure this out ? So to look at this , to look at what we really want , we thought about the philosopher John Rawls . So , we took another group , a large group of Americans , and we asked them the question in the veil of ignorance . Now , nobody in our sample wanted full equality . Now , we can ask these questions , by the way , not just about wealth . We also asked this question about something else . So what about other outcomes of wealth ? Wealth is not just about wealth . So what are some lessons from this ? We have two gaps : We have a knowledge gap and we have a desirability gap And the knowledge gap is something that we think about , how do we educate people ? How do we get people to think differently about inequality and the consequences of inequality in terms of health , education , jealousy , crime rate , and so on ? Then we have the desirability gap . And finally , we also have an action gap . To summarize , I would say , next time you go to drink beer or wine , first of all , think about , what is it in your experience that is real , and what is it in your experience that is a placebo effect coming from expectations ? And then think about what it also means for other decisions in your life , and hopefully also for policy questions that affect all of us . Thanks a lot . ( Applause ) 