Paul Krugman , the Nobel Prize [ winner ] in economics , once wrote : `` Productivity is not everything , but in the long run , it is almost everything . '' So this is serious . There are not that many things on earth that are `` almost everything . '' Productivity is the principal driver of the prosperity of a society . So we have a problem . In the largest European economies , productivity used to grow five percent per annum in the '50s , '60s , early '70s . From '73 to '83 : three percent per annum . From '83 to '95 : two percent per annum . Since 1995 : less than one percent per annum . The same profile in Japan . The same profile in the US , despite a momentary rebound 15 years ago , and despite all the technological innovations around us : the Internet , the information , the new information and communication technologies . When productivity grows three percent per annum , you double the standard of living every generation . Every generation is twice as well-off as its parents ' . When it grows one percent per annum , it takes three generations to double the standard of living . And in this process , many people will be less well-off than their parents . They will have less of everything : smaller roofs , or perhaps no roof at all , less access to education , to vitamins , to antibiotics , to vaccination -- to everything . Think of all the problems that we 're facing at the moment . All . Chances are that they are rooted in the productivity crisis . Why this crisis ? Because the basic tenets about efficiency -- effectiveness in organizations , in management -- have become counterproductive for human efforts . Everywhere in public services -- in companies , in the way we work , the way we innovate , invest -- try to learn to work better . Take the holy trinity of efficiency : clarity , measurement , accountability . They make human efforts derail . There are two ways to look at it , to prove it . One , the one I prefer , is rigorous , elegant , nice -- math . But the full math version takes a little while , so there is another one . It is to look at a relay race . This is what we will do today . It 's a bit more animated , more visual and also faster -- it 's a race . Hopefully , it 's faster . ( Laughter ) World championship final -- women . ( Laughter ) based on their best performances in the 100-meter race , if you add the individual times of the US runners , they arrive at the finish line 3.2 meters ahead of the French team . ( Laughter ) So clearly , the US team has won the war for talent . ( Video : French sportscasters narrate race ) ( Video : Race narration ends ) Yves Morieux : So what happened ? The fastest team did not win ; the slower one did . ( Laughter ) But let 's not exaggerate -- it 's not archeology , either . ( Laughter ) But why ? Because of cooperation . Now , what happens to cooperation when the holy grail -- the holy trinity , even -- of clarity , measurement , accountability -- appears ? Clarity . Accountability . Measurement . ( Laughter ) Now , let 's look at the race in slow motion , and concentrate on the third runner . To cooperate is not a super effort , it is how you allocate your effort . You know , clarity , accountability , measurement were OK when the world was simpler . You know , this drive for clarity and accountability triggers a counterproductive multiplication of interfaces , middle offices , coordinators that do not only mobilize people and resources , but that also add obstacles . Our organizations are wasting human intelligence . We need to create organizations in which it becomes individually useful for people to cooperate . You , as leaders , as managers , are you making it individually useful for people to cooperate ? The future of our organizations , our companies , our societies hinges on your answer to these questions . Thank you . ( Applause ) 