If we look around us , much of what surrounds us started life as various rocks and sludge buried in the ground in various places in the world . But , of course , they do n't look like rocks and sludge now . They look like TV cameras , monitors , annoying radio mics . And so this magical transformation is what I was trying to get at with my project , which became known as the Toaster Project . And it was also inspired by this quote from Douglas Adams , and the situation is from `` The Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy . '' And the situation it describes is the hero of the book -- he 's a 20th-century man -- finds himself alone on a strange planet populated only by a technologically primitive people . And he kind of assumes that , yes , he 'll become -- these villagers -- he 'll become their emperor and transform their society with his wonderful command of technology and science and the elements , but , of course , realizes that without the rest of human society , he can barely make a sandwich , let alone a toaster . But he did n't have Wikipedia . So I thought , okay , I 'll try and make an electric toaster from scratch . And , working on the idea that the cheapest electric toaster would also be the simplest to reverse-engineer , I went and bought the cheapest toaster I could find , took it home and was kind of dismayed to discover that , inside this object , which I 'd bought for just 3.49 pounds , there were 400 different bits made out of a hundred-plus different materials . I did n't have the rest of my life to do this project . I had maybe nine months . So I thought , okay , I 'll start with five . And these were steel , mica , plastic , copper and nickel . So , starting with steel : how do you make steel ? I went and knocked on the door of the Rio Tinto Chair of Advanced Mineral Extraction at the Royal School of Mines and said , `` How do you make steel ? '' And Professor Cilliers was very kind and talked me through it . And my vague rememberings from GCSE science -- well , steel comes from iron , so I phoned up an iron mine . And said , `` Hi , I 'm trying to make a toaster . Can I come up and get some iron ? '' Unfortunately , when I got there -- emerges Ray . He had misheard me and thought I was coming up because I was trying to make a poster , and so was n't prepared to take me into the mines . But after some nagging , I got him to do that . ( Video ) Ray : It was Crease Limestone , and that was produced by sea creatures 350 million years ago in a nice , warm , sunny atmosphere . When you study geology , you can see what 's happened in the past , and there were terrific changes in the earth . Thomas Thwaites : As you can see , they had the Christmas decorations up . And of course , it was n't actually a working mine anymore , because , though Ray was a miner there , the mine had closed and had been reopened as a kind of tourist attraction , because , of course , it ca n't compete on the scale of operations which are happening in South America , Australia , wherever . But anyway , I got my suitcase of iron ore and dragged it back to London on the train , and then was faced with the problem : Okay , how do you make this rock into components for a toaster ? So I went back to Professor Cilliers , and he said , `` Go to the library . '' So I did and was looking through the undergraduate textbooks on metallurgy -- completely useless for what I was trying to do . Because , of course , they do n't actually tell you how to do it if you want to do it yourself and you do n't have a smelting plant . So I ended up going to the History of Science Library and looking at this book . This is the first textbook on metallurgy written in the West , at least . And there you can see that woodcut is basically what I ended up doing . But instead of a bellows , I had a leaf blower . ( Laughter ) And that was something that reoccurred throughout the project , was , the smaller the scale you want to work on , the further back in time you have to go . So , my next -- ( Applause ) The next thing I was trying to get was copper . So my next thing : I was off to Scotland to get mica . So kind of out of desperation , I decided that I could think laterally . So I looked up a plastic -- so I decided that I could mine some of this modern-day rock . ( Music ) ( Laughter ) So there 's a picture of my toaster . ( Applause ) Bruno Giussani : I 'm told you did plug it in once . TT : Yeah , I did plug it in . BG : Thomas Thwaites . 