It was November 1 , 2002 , my first day as a principal , but hardly my first day in the school district of Philadelphia . I graduated from Philadelphia public schools , and I went on to teach special education for 20 years in a low-income , low-performing school in North Philadelphia , where crime is rampant and deep poverty is among the highest in the nation . Shortly after I walked into my new school , a huge fight broke out among the girls . After things were quickly under control , I immediately called a meeting in the school 's auditorium to introduce myself as the school 's new principal . ( Applause ) I walked in angry , a little nervous -- ( Laughter ) -- but I was determined to set the tone for my new students . In one outburst , Ashley had expressed what I felt and never quite was able to articulate about my own experience when I attended a low-performing school in the same neighborhood , many , many , many years earlier . Fast forwarding a decade later to 2012 , I was entering my third low-performing school as principal . And then , there were the teachers , who were incredibly afraid for their own safety , so they had low expectations for the students and themselves , and they were totally unaware of their role in the destruction of the school 's culture . My first slogan is : if you 're going to lead , lead . And , of course , of course , we tackled the big stuff , like rehauling the entire school budget so that we can reallocate funds to have more teachers and support staff . The results ? Strawberry Mansion was removed from the Persistently Dangerous List our first year after being -- ( Applause ) -- after being on the Persistently Dangerous List for five consecutive years . That brings me to my second slogan : So what ? Now what ? ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) When we looked at the data , and we met with the staff , there were many excuses for why Strawberry Mansion was low-performing and persistently dangerous . After they got through telling us all the stories of how awful the conditions and the children were , I looked at them , and I said , `` So what . Eliminating excuses at every turn became my primary responsibility . The results ? After one year , state data revealed that our scores have grown by 171 percent in Algebra and 107 percent in literature . And that brings me to my third and final slogan . My students have problems : social , emotional and economic problems you could never imagine . So -- ( Applause ) -- if I 'm going to push my students toward their dream and their purpose in life , I 've got to get to know who they are . We hold monthly town hall meetings to listen to their concerns , to find out what is on their minds . My reward , my reward for being non-negotiable in my rules and consequences is their earned respect . Ashley 's words of `` Miss , Miss , this is not a school , '' is forever etched in my mind . I do not know all the answers , but what I do know is for those of us who are privileged and have the responsibility of leading a school that serves children in poverty , we must truly lead , and when we are faced with unbelievable challenges , we must stop and ask ourselves , `` So what . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you , Jesus . 