So we humans have an extraordinary potential for goodness , but also an immense power to do harm . Any tool can be used to build or to destroy . That all depends on our motivation . Therefore , it is all the more important to foster an altruistic motivation rather than a selfish one . So now we indeed are facing many challenges in our times . Those could be personal challenges . Our own mind can be our best friend or our worst enemy . There 's also societal challenges : poverty in the midst of plenty , inequalities , conflict , injustice . And then there are the new challenges , which we do n't expect . Ten thousand years ago , there were about five million human beings on Earth . Whatever they could do , the Earth 's resilience would soon heal human activities . After the Industrial and Technological Revolutions , that 's not the same anymore . We are now the major agent of impact on our Earth . We enter the Anthropocene , the era of human beings . So in a way , if we were to say we need to continue this endless growth , endless use of material resources , it 's like if this man was saying -- and I heard a former head of state , I wo n't mention who , saying -- `` Five years ago , we were at the edge of the precipice . Today we made a big step forward . '' So this edge is the same that has been defined by scientists as the planetary boundaries . And within those boundaries , they can carry a number of factors . We can still prosper , humanity can still prosper for 150,000 years if we keep the same stability of climate as in the Holocene for the last 10,000 years . But this depends on choosing a voluntary simplicity , growing qualitatively , not quantitatively . So in 1900 , as you can see , we were well within the limits of safety . Now , in 1950 came the great acceleration . Now hold your breath , not too long , to imagine what comes next . Now we have vastly overrun some of the planetary boundaries . Just to take biodiversity , at the current rate , by 2050 , 30 percent of all species on Earth will have disappeared . Even if we keep their DNA in some fridge , that 's not going to be reversible . So here I am sitting in front of a 7,000-meter-high , 21,000-foot glacier in Bhutan . At the Third Pole , 2,000 glaciers are melting fast , faster than the Arctic . So what can we do in that situation ? Well , however complex politically , economically , scientifically the question of the environment is , it simply boils down to a question of altruism versus selfishness . I 'm a Marxist of the Groucho tendency . ( Laughter ) Groucho Marx said , `` Why should I care about future generations ? What have they ever done for me ? '' ( Laughter ) Unfortunately , I heard the billionaire Steve Forbes , on Fox News , saying exactly the same thing , but seriously . So one of the main challenges of our times is to reconcile three time scales : the short term of the economy , the ups and downs of the stock market , the end-of-the-year accounts ; the midterm of the quality of life -- what is the quality every moment of our life , over 10 years and 20 years ? -- and the long term of the environment . So the question is , okay , altruism is the answer , it 's not just a novel ideal , but can it be a real , pragmatic solution ? And first of all , does it exist , true altruism , or are we so selfish ? So some philosophers thought we were irredeemably selfish . So now , on top of that , the quality of human relationships . Now , look at this . There are people who had choice , like Pastor André Trocmé and his wife , and the whole village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon in France . So what is altruism ? It is the wish : May others be happy and find the cause of happiness . Now , if we want a more altruistic society , we need two things : individual change and societal change . So do you need 50,000 hours of meditation ? No , you do n't . Even with preschoolers -- Richard Davidson did that in Madison . Now where do we go from there ? ( Applause ) When the Dalai Lama heard that , he told Richard Davidson , `` You go to 10 schools , 100 schools , the U.N. , the whole world . So now where do we go from there ? Individual change is possible . So where do we go from there ? Myself , I will go back to the East . But on the more global level , what can we do ? We need three things . So , long live the altruistic revolution . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) 