So , now , there are a lot of web 2.0 consultants who make a lot of money . In fact , they make their livings on this kind of stuff . I 'm going to try and save you all the time and all the money and go through it in the next three minutes , so bear with me . Started a website back in 2005 , with a few friends of mine , called Reddit.com . That 's what you 'd call a social news website . Basically all that means is that the democratic front page is the best stuff on the web . You find some interesting content , say a TEDTalk , submit it to Reddit , and the community of your peers will vote it up if they like it , vote it down if they do n't . And that creates the front page . It 's always rising , falling , always changing . About a half million people visit every day . But this is n't about Reddit . This is actually about discovering new things that pop up on the web . Because in the last four years we 've seen all kinds of memes , all kinds of trends get born right on our front page . But this is n't even about Reddit itself . It 's actually about humpback whales . Well , okay , technically it 's actually about Greenpeace , which is an environmental organization that wanted to stop the Japanese government on their whaling campaign . These humpback whales were getting killed . They wanted to put an end to it . And one of the ways they wanted to do it was to put a tracking chip inside one of these humpback whales . But to really kind of personify the movement , they wanted to name it . So , in true web fashion they put together a poll where they had a bunch of very erudite , very thoughtful , cultured names . I believe this is a Farsi word for `` immortal . '' I think this means `` divine power of the ocean '' in a Polynesian language . And then there was this : Mister Splashy Pants . ( Laughter ) And this , this was special . So , it went from about five percent , which was when this meme started , to 70 percent at the end of voting . Well , that got us a little angry . So , there was a clear lesson here . And actually , Redditors in the Internet community were happy to participate , but they were n't whale lovers . And this is kind of how the Internet works . The other important thing is that it costs nothing to get that content online now . And if you do , be genuine about it . 