Welcome to Thailand . Now , when I was a young man -- 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty . We decided to do something about it , but we did n't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program . But we began with a family-planning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities . So basically , no one would accept family planning if their children did n't survive . So the first step : get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning . Not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning . Now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it . In my country , that was the case in 1974 . Seven children per family -- tremendous growth at 3.3 percent . There was just no future . We needed to reduce the population growth rate . So we said , `` Let 's do it . '' The women said , `` We agree . We 'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , '' and we had very , very few doctors . We did n't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question . We went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill . That was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country . What do we do for the other 80 percent -- leave them alone and say , `` Well , they 're not medical personnel . '' No , we decided to do a bit more . So we went to the ordinary people that you saw . Actually , below that yellow sign -- I wish they had n't wiped that , because there was `` Coca-Cola '' there . We were so much bigger than Coca-Cola in those days . And no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose . They were well-known in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves . So they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country . So there we are . We went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution . Wherever there were people -- and you can see boats with the women , selling things -- here 's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives -- wherever you find people , you 'll find contraceptives in Thailand . And then we decided , why not get to religion because in the Philippines , the Catholic Church was pretty strong , and Thai people were Buddhist . We went to them and they said , `` Look , could you help us ? '' I 'm there -- the one in blue , not the yellow -- holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family . And this picture was sent throughout the country . So some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves . And the women were saying , `` No wonder we have no side-effects . It 's been blessed . '' That was their perception . And then we went to teachers . You need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place . So we went to the teachers . Over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet -- A , B for birth , C for condom , I for IUD , V for vasectomy . And then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice . If you land on anything pro-family planning , you move ahead . Like , `` Mother takes the pill every night . Very good , mother . Move ahead . Uncle buys a condom . Very good , uncle . Move ahead . Uncle gets drunk , does n't use condom . Come back , start again . '' ( Laughter ) Again , education , class entertainment . We introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , `` We only want to lend to women who practice family planning . ( Laughter ) And what happened ? In all this thing , from seven children to 1.5 children , population growth rate of 3.3 to 0.5 . Then AIDS came along and hit Thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight AIDS . Every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in AIDS education -- everyone -- and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools -- everyone was involved . So you have the companies also realizing that sick staff do n't work , and dead customers do n't buy . ( Laughter ) And these were the condoms that we introduced . And then what happened ? After all this time , everybody joined in . And then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got AIDS somewhat out of the way -- this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community . And before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained . And then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it 's a lifelong learning center for everyone . And then , finally , I firmly believe , if we want the MDGs to work -- the Millennium Development Goals -- we need to add family planning to it . ( Laughter ) Thank you very much indeed . ( Applause ) 