So yesterday , I was out in the street in front of this building , and I was walking down the sidewalk , and I had company , several of us , and we were all abiding by the rules of walking down sidewalks . We 're not talking each other . We 're facing forward . We 're moving . When the person in front of me slows down . And so I 'm watching him , and he slows down , and finally he stops . Well , that was n't fast enough for me , so I put on my turn signal , and I walked around him , and as I walked , I looked to see what he was doing , and he was doing this . He was texting , and he could n't text and walk at the same time . Now we could approach this from a working memory perspective or from a multitasking perspective . We 're going to do working memory today . Now , working memory is that part of our consciousness that we are aware of at any given time of day . You 're going it right now . It 's not something we can turn off . If you turn it off , that 's called a coma , okay ? So right now , you 're doing just fine . Now working memory has four basic components . It allows us to store some immediate experiences and a little bit of knowledge . It allows us to reach back into our long-term memory and pull some of that in as we need it , mixes it , processes it in light of whatever our current goal is . Now the current goal is n't something like , I want to be president or the best surfer in the world . It 's more mundane . I 'd like that cookie , or I need to figure out how to get into my hotel room . Now working memory capacity is our ability to leverage that , our ability to take what we know and what we can hang onto and leverage it in ways that allow us to satisfy our current goal . Now working memory capacity has a fairly long history , and it 's associated with a lot of positive effects . People with high working memory capacity tend to be good storytellers . They tend to solve and do well on standardized tests , however important that is . They 're able to have high levels of writing ability . They 're also able to reason at high levels . So what we 're going to do here is play a little bit with some of that . So I 'm going to ask you to perform a couple tasks , and we 're going to take your working memory out for a ride . You up for that ? Okay . I 'm going to give you five words , and I just want you to hang on to them . Do n't write them down . Just hang on to them . Five words . While you 're hanging on to them , I 'm going to ask you to answer three questions . I want to see what happens with those words . So here 's the words : tree , highway , mirror , Saturn and electrode . So far so good ? Okay . What I want you to do is I want you to tell me what the answer is to 23 times eight . Just shout it out . ( Mumbling ) ( Laughter ) In fact it 's -- ( Mumbling ) -- exactly . All right . What we know is this is really important to the way we function , right ? And it 's going to be really important here at TED because you 're going to be exposed to so many different ideas . Now the problem that we have is that life comes at us , and it comes at us very quickly , and what we need to do is to take that amorphous flow of experience and somehow extract meaning from it with a working memory that 's about the size of a pea . Now working memory is great for allowing us to communicate . When we think about working memory , we have to realize that this limited capacity has lots of different impacts on us . So what I want to do is talk a little bit about a couple of strategies here , and these will be really important because you are now in an information target-rich environment for the next several days . The next thing is , we need to think elaboratively and we need to think illustratively . The last one is organization and support . And the last one is support . Now , the final piece of this , the take-home message from a working memory capacity standpoint is this : what we process , we learn . ( Applause ) 