I want you to imagine what a breakthrough this was for women who were victims of violence in the 1980s . They would come into the emergency room with what the police would call `` a lovers ' quarrel , '' and I would see a woman who was beaten , I would see a broken nose and a fractured wrist and swollen eyes . And as activists , we would take our Polaroid camera , we would take her picture , we would wait 90 seconds , and we would give her the photograph . And she would then have the evidence she needed to go to court . We were making what was invisible visible . I 've been doing this for 30 years . I 've been part of a social movement that has been working on ending violence against women and children . And for all those years , I 've had an absolutely passionate and sometimes not popular belief that this violence is not inevitable , that it is learned , and if it 's learned , it can be un-learned , and it can be prevented . ( Applause ) Why do I believe this ? Because it 's true . It is absolutely true . Between 1993 and 2010 , domestic violence among adult women in the United States has gone down by 64 percent , and that is great news . ( Applause ) Sixty-four percent . Now , how did we get there ? Our eyes were wide open . Thirty years ago , women were beaten , they were stalked , they were raped , and no one talked about it . There was no justice . And as an activist , that was not good enough . And so step one on this journey is we organized , and we created this extraordinary underground network of amazing women who opened shelters , and if they did n't open a shelter , they opened their home so that women and children could be safe . And you know what else we did ? We had bake sales , we had car washes , and we did everything we could do to fundraise , and then at one point we said , you know , it 's time that we went to the federal government and asked them to pay for these extraordinary services that are saving people 's lives . Right ? ( Applause ) And so , step number two , we knew we needed to change the laws . And so we went to Washington , and we lobbied for the first piece of legislation . And I remember walking through the halls of the U.S. Capitol , and I was in my 30s , and my life had purpose , and I could n't imagine that anybody would ever challenge this important piece of legislation . I was probably 30 and naive . But I heard about a congressman who had a very , very different point of view . Do you know what he called this important piece of legislation ? He called it the Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act . The Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act . Ladies and gentlemen , that was in 1984 in the United States , and I wish I had Twitter . ( Laughter ) Ten years later , after lots of hard work , we finally passed the Violence Against Women Act , which is a life-changing act that has saved so many lives . And you know what else it did ? It collected data . And I also want to say one other thing : We are not going to solve this problem by building more jails or by even building more shelters . And so , step number three on this journey : We know , if we 're going to keep making this progress , we 're going to have to turn up the volume , we 're going to have to increase the visibility , and we 're going to have to engage the public . ( Video ) Man : Where 's dinner ? Woman : Well , I thought you 'd be home a couple hours ago , and I put everything away , so— Man : What is this ? Pizza . Man : Dinner ? Dinner ready is a pizza ? Woman : Honey , please do n't be so loud . Man : Get in the kitchen ! Woman : No ! Help ! Man : You want to see what hurts ? ( Slaps woman ) That 's what hurts ! That 's what hurts ! ( Breaking glass ) Woman : Help me ! [ `` Children have to sit by and watch . Esta Soler : As we were in the process of releasing this campaign , O.J . But we were still missing a critical element . We 've come a long way since the days of the Polaroid . I 'm the daughter of a man who joined one club in his life , the Optimist Club . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 