Something happened in the early morning hours of May 2nd , 2000 , that had a profound effect on the way our society operates . Ironically , hardly anyone noticed at the time . The change was silent , imperceptible , unless you knew exactly what to look for . On that morning , U.S. President Bill Clinton ordered that a special switch be thrown in the orbiting satellites of the Global Positioning System . Instantaneously , every civilian GPS receiver around the globe went from errors the size of a football field to errors the size of a small room . It 's hard to overstate the effect that this change in accuracy has had on us . Before this switch was thrown , we did n't have in-car navigation systems giving turn-by-turn directions , because back then , GPS could n't tell you what block you were on , let alone what street . For geolocation , accuracy matters , and things have only improved over the last 10 years . With more base stations , more ground stations , better receivers and better algorithms , GPS can now not only tell you what street you are on , but what part of the street . This level of accuracy has unleashed a firestorm of innovation . In fact , many of you navigated here today with the help of your TomTom or your smartphone . Paper maps are becoming obsolete . But we now stand on the verge of another revolution in geolocation accuracy . What if I told you that the two-meter positioning that our current cell phones and our TomToms give us is pathetic compared to what we could be getting ? For some time now , it 's been known that if you pay attention to the carrier phase of the GPS signal , and if you have an Internet connection , then you can go from meter level to centimeter level , even millimeter-level positioning . So why do n't we have this capability on our phones ? Only , I believe , for a lack of imagination . Manufacturers have n't built this carrier phase technique into their cheap GPS chips because they 're not sure what the general public would do with geolocation so accurate that you could pinpoint the wrinkles in the palm of your hand . But you and I and other innovators , we can see the potential in this next leap in accuracy . Imagine , for example , an augmented reality app that overlays a virtual world to millimeter-level precision on top of the physical world . I could build for you a structure up here in 3D , millimeter accurate , that only you could see , or my friends at home . So this level of positioning , this is what we 're looking for , and I believe that , within the next few years , I predict , that this kind of hyper-precise , carrier phase-based positioning will become cheap and ubiquitous , and the consequences will be fantastic . The Holy Grail , of course , is the GPS dot . Do you remember the movie `` The Da Vinci Code ? '' Here 's Professor Langdon examining a GPS dot , which his accomplice tells him is a tracking device accurate within two feet anywhere on the globe , but we know that in the world of nonfiction , the GPS dot is impossible , right ? For one thing , GPS does n't work indoors , and for another , they do n't make devices quite this small , especially when those devices have to relay their measurements back over a network . Well , these objections were perfectly reasonable a few years ago , but things have changed . There 's been a strong trend toward miniaturization , better sensitivity , so much so that , a few years ago , a GPS tracking device looked like this clunky box to the left of the keys . Compare that with the device released just months ago that 's now packaged into something the size of a key fob , and if you take a look at the state of the art for a complete GPS receiver , which is only a centimeter on a side and more sensitive than ever , you realize that the GPS dot will soon move from fiction to nonfiction . Imagine what we could do with a world full of GPS dots . It 's not just that you 'll never lose your wallet or your keys anymore , or your child when you 're at Disneyland . You 'll buy GPS dots in bulk , and you 'll stick them on everything you own worth more than a few tens of dollars . I could n't find my shoes one recent morning , and , as usual , had to ask my wife if she had seen them . But I should n't have to bother my wife with that kind of triviality . I should be able to ask my house where my shoes are . ( Laughter ) Those of you who have made the switch to Gmail , remember how refreshing it was to go from organizing all of your email to simply searching it . Now , of course , there is a flip side to the GPS dot . `` Well , you should go to a good mechanic and have him look at your car , '' I said . `` I already have , '' she told me . `` Well then , you 'd better go to the police , '' I said . `` I already have , '' she replied . `` Okay , what about the FBI ? '' `` I 've talked to them too , and same story . We then talked about her coming to my lab and us performing a radio sweep of her car , but I was n't even sure that would work , given that some of these devices are configured to only transmit when they 're inside safe zones or when the car is moving . So , there we were . In fact , as I looked into her case , I discovered to my surprise that it 's not clearly illegal for you or me to put a tracking device on someone else 's car . There is one alternative that Carol could have taken , very effective . So you might be thinking , the Wave Bubble sounds great . Now , if you 're Carol or Limor , or someone who feels threatened by GPS tracking , it might not feel wrong to turn on a Wave Bubble , but in fact , the results can be disastrous . Our modern society has a special relationship with GPS . But as it turns out , for purposes of protecting your privacy at the expense of general GPS reliability , there 's something even more potent and more subversive than a Wave Bubble , and that is a GPS spoofer . The idea behind the GPS spoofer is simple . So let me show you how this works . So is this really possible ? Can someone really manipulate the timing and positioning of a GPS receiver just like that , with a spoofer ? Well , the short answer is yes . But I , and a friend of mine from graduate school , we did n't see it that way . Now , the Dr. Frankenstein moment , when the spoofer finally came alive and I glimpsed its awful potential , came late one night when I tested the spoofer against my iPhone . There is , though , one redeeming feature of the GPS spoofer . So I 'm fascinated by this conflict , a looming conflict , between privacy on the one hand and the need for a clean radio spectrum on the other . I hold out hope that we 'll be able to reconcile this conflict with some sort of , some yet uninvented technology . Within the next few years , many of you will be the proud owner of a GPS dot . So , as usual , what we see just beyond the horizon is full of promise and peril . Thanks . 