A couple of years ago , Harvard Business School chose the best business model of that year . It chose Somali piracy . Pretty much around the same time , I discovered that there were 544 seafarers being held hostage on ships , often anchored just off the Somali coast in plain sight . And I learned these two facts , and I thought , what 's going on in shipping ? And I thought , would that happen in any other industry ? Would we see 544 airline pilots held captive in their jumbo jets on a runway for months , or a year ? Would we see 544 Greyhound bus drivers ? It would n't happen . So I started to get intrigued . And I discovered another fact , which to me was more astonishing almost for the fact that I had n't known it before at the age of 42 , 43 . That is how fundamentally we still depend on shipping . Because perhaps the general public thinks of shipping as an old-fashioned industry , something brought by sailboat with Moby Dicks and Jack Sparrows . But shipping is n't that . Shipping is as crucial to us as it has ever been . Shipping brings us 90 percent of world trade . Shipping has quadrupled in size since 1970 . We are more dependent on it now than ever . And yet , for such an enormous industry -- there are a 100,000 working vessels on the sea — it 's become pretty much invisible . Now that sounds absurd in Singapore to say that , because here shipping is so present that you stuck a ship on top of a hotel . ( Laughter ) But elsewhere in the world , if you ask the general public what they know about shipping and how much trade is carried by sea , you will get essentially a blank face . Now why is this ? A few years ago , the first sea lord of the British admiralty -- he is called the first sea lord , although the chief of the army is not called a land lord — he said that we , and he meant in the industrialized nations in the West , that we suffer from sea blindness . So I wanted to open my own eyes to my own sea blindness , so I ran away to sea . And one of the first things that surprised me when I got on board Kendal was , where are all the people ? I have friends in the Navy who tell me they sail with 1,000 sailors at a time , but on Kendal there were only 21 crew . And another thing that surprised me when I got on board Kendal was who I was sitting next to -- Not the queen ; I ca n't imagine why they put me underneath her portrait -- But around that dining table in the officer 's saloon , I was sitting next to a Burmese guy , I was opposite a Romanian , a Moldavian , an Indian . Now how is that possible ? Because the biggest dramatic change in shipping over the last 60 years , when most of the general public stopped noticing it , was something called an open registry , or a flag of convenience . So we have these very multinational , global , mobile crews on ships . What else does our sea blindness mask ? Well , if you go out to sea on a ship or on a cruise ship , and look up to the funnel , you 'll see very black smoke . I also traveled to Cape Cod to look at the plight of the North Atlantic right whale , because this to me was one of the most surprising things about my time at sea , and what it made me think about . And when I arrived in Singapore , and I apologize for this , but I did n't want to get off my ship . But when I get to this part , I 'm in two minds , because I want to salute those seafarers who bring us 90 percent of everything and get very little thanks or recognition for it . Thank you . ( Applause ) 