`` Even in purely non-religious terms , homosexuality represents a misuse of the sexual faculty . It is a pathetic little second-rate substitute for reality -- a pitiable flight from life . As such , it deserves no compassion , it deserves no treatment as minority martyrdom , and it deserves not to be deemed anything but a pernicious sickness . '' That 's from Time magazine in 1966 , when I was three years old . And last year , the president of the United States came out in favor of gay marriage . ( Applause ) And my question is , how did we get from there to here ? How did an illness become an identity ? When I was perhaps six years old , I went to a shoe store with my mother and my brother . And at the end of buying our shoes , the salesman said to us that we could each have a balloon to take home . My brother wanted a red balloon , and I wanted a pink balloon . My mother said that she thought I 'd really rather have a blue balloon . But I said that I definitely wanted the pink one . And she reminded me that my favorite color was blue . The fact that my favorite color now is blue , but I 'm still gay -- ( Laughter ) -- is evidence of both my mother 's influence and its limits . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) When I was little , my mother used to say , `` The love you have for your children is like no other feeling in the world . About 20 years ago , I was asked by my editors at The New York Times Magazine to write a piece about deaf culture . ( Laughter ) And as I plunged deeper and deeper into the deaf world , I become convinced that deafness was a culture and that the people in the deaf world who said , `` We do n't lack hearing , we have membership in a culture , '' were saying something that was viable . Then a friend of a friend of mine had a daughter who was a dwarf . And I suddenly thought , most deaf children are born to hearing parents . There are vertical identities , which are passed down generationally from parent to child . There are these other identities which you have to learn from a peer group . And I wanted to look at what the process is through which people who have those identities come to a good relationship with them . And a lot of the time , people who have these conditions are very angry because they feel as though their parents do n't love them , when what actually has happened is that their parents do n't accept them . One of the dwarfs I got to know was a guy named Clinton Brown . And his mother said she was n't going to do it . And while he was there , they sent tutors around to help him with his school work . And his mother told me this story of coming home one day -- and he went to college nearby -- and she said , `` I saw that car , which you can always recognize , in the parking lot of a bar , '' she said . ( Applause ) And I said to her , `` What do you think you did that helped him to emerge as this charming , accomplished , wonderful person ? '' And she said , `` What did I do ? I loved him , that 's all . I 'm going to quote from another magazine of the '60s . There 's been a lot of ink given to the enormous progress that we 've made in the treatment of gay people . One of the families I interviewed , Tom and Karen Robards , were taken aback when , as young and successful New Yorkers , their first child was diagnosed with Down syndrome . In the time since that Atlantic Monthly story ran , the life expectancy for people with Down syndrome has tripled . The Robards had a lot to do with that . And Karen Robards said to me , `` I 'm with Tom . We live at a point when social acceptance for these and many other conditions is on the up and up . And so we have both social progress and medical progress . ( Laughter ) We have to think about how we feel about cures altogether . Jim Sinclair , a prominent autism activist , said , `` When parents say 'I wish my child did not have autism , ' what they 're really saying is 'I wish the child I have did not exist and I had a different , non-autistic child instead . One of the families I interviewed for this project was the family of Dylan Klebold who was one of the perpetrators of the Columbine massacre . And on Sunday night , we were all exhausted . When I had dinner with her a couple of years later -- one of many dinners that we had together -- she said , `` You know , when it first happened , I used to wish that I had never married , that I had never had children . I thought it was surprising how all of these families had all of these children with all of these problems , problems that they mostly would have done anything to avoid , and that they had all found so much meaning in that experience of parenting . ( Laughter ) It turns out that while each of these individual differences is siloed -- there are only so many families dealing with schizophrenia , there are only so many families of children who are transgender , there are only so many families of prodigies -- who also face similar challenges in many ways -- there are only so many families in each of those categories -- but if you start to think that the experience of negotiating difference within your family is what people are addressing , then you discover that it 's a nearly universal phenomenon . I decided to have children while I was working on this project . I thought a lot about the mother of one disabled child I had seen , a severely disabled child who died through caregiver neglect . So my husband is the biological father of two children with some lesbian friends in Minneapolis . ( Applause ) So the shorthand is five parents of four children in three states . And there are people who think that the existence of my family somehow undermines or weakens or damages their family . The day after our son was born , the pediatrician came into the hospital room and said she was concerned . And as she told me all of these things , I felt the very center of my being pouring out onto the floor . We took him to the MRI machine , we took him to the CAT scanner , we took this day-old child and gave him over for an arterial blood draw . ( Laughter ) But I thought how my mother was right . I think children had ensnared me the moment I connected fatherhood with loss . During these 10 years , I had witnessed and learned the terrifying joy of unbearable responsibility , and I had come to see how it conquers everything else . Thank you . ( Applause ) 