Every group of female friends has the funny one , the one you go to when you need a good cry , the one who tells you to suck it up when you 've had a hard day . And this group was no different . Except that this was a community of groundbreaking women who came together -- first to become teammates , then friends , and then family -- in the least likely of places : on the Special Operations battlefield . This was a group of women whose friendship and valor was cemented not only by what they had seen and done at the tip of the spear , but by the fact that they were there at a time when women -- officially , at least -- remained banned from ground combat , and America had no idea they existed . This story begins with Special Operations leaders , some of the most tested men in the United States military , saying , `` We need women to help us wage this war . '' `` America would never kill its way to the end of its wars , '' it argued . `` Needed more knowledge and more understanding . '' And as everyone knows , if you want to understand what 's happening in a community and in a home , you talk to women , whether you 're talking about Southern Afghanistan , or Southern California . But in this case , men could not talk to women , because in a conservative and traditional society like Afghanistan , that would cause grave offense . So you needed women soldiers out there . That meant , at this time in the war , that the women who would be recruited to serve alongside Army Rangers and Navy SEALs , would be seeing the kind of combat experienced by less than five percent of the entire United States military . Less than five percent . So the call went out . `` Female soldiers : Become a part of history . Join Special Operations on the battlefield in Afghanistan . '' This is in 2011 . And from Alabama to Alaska , a group of women who had always wanted to do something that mattered alongside the best of the best , and to make a difference for their country , answered that call to serve . And for them it was not about politics , it was about serving with purpose . And so , the women who came to North Carolina to compete for a spot on these teams which would put women on the Special Operations front lines , landed and found very quickly a community , the likes of which they had never seen . Full of women who were as fierce and as fit as they were , and as driven to make a difference . They did n't have to apologize for who they were , and in fact , they could celebrate it . And what they found when they were there was that all of a sudden , there were lots of people like them . As one of them said , `` It was like you looked around and realized there was more than one giraffe at the zoo . '' Among this team of standouts was Cassie , a young woman who managed to be an ROTC cadet , a sorority sister and a Women 's Studies minor , all in one person . Tristan , a West Point track star , who always ran and road marched with no socks , and had shoes whose smell proved it . ( Laughter ) Amber , a Heidi look-alike , who had always wanted to be in the infantry , and when she found out that women could n't be , she decided to become an intel officer . For them , biology had shaped part of their destiny , and put , as Cassie once said , `` everything noble out of reach for girls . This team of women , in many ways , was like women everywhere . These women would get together over video conference from all around Afghanistan from their various bases , and they would talk about what it was like to be one of the only women doing what they were doing . These women lived in the `` and . There was the night Amber went out on mission , and in talking to the women of the house , realized that there was a barricaded shooter lying in wait for the Afghan and American forces who were waiting to enter the home . That night and so many others , they went out to prove themselves , not only for one another , but for everybody who would come after them . At the heart of this team was the one person who everyone called `` the best of us . Some of our heroes return home to tell their stories . Ashley 's mom is a teacher 's aide and a school bus driver , who bakes cookies on the side . It is time to celebrate all the unsung heroines who reach into their guts and find the heart and the grit to keep going and to test every limit . 