Imagine a place where your neighbors greet your children by name ; a place with splendid vistas ; a place where you can drive just 20 minutes and put your sailboat on the water . It 's a seductive place , is n't it ? I do n't live there . ( Laughter ) But I did journey on a 27,000-mile trip for two years , to the fastest-growing and whitest counties in America . What is a Whitopia ? I define Whitopia in three ways : First , a Whitopia has posted at least six percent population growth since 2000 . To learn how and why Whitopias are ticking , I immersed myself for several months apiece in three of them : first , St. George , Utah ; second , Coeur d'Alene , Idaho ; and third , Forsyth County , Georgia . First stop , St. George -- a beautiful town of red rock landscapes . I rented myself this home by phone . Golf is the perfect seductive symbol of Whitopia . Golf helps people bond . I also went fishing . I also played poker every weekend . I 'm a gung ho entertainer . But it was n't all fun . Next stop : Almost Heaven , a cabin I rented for myself in Coeur d'Alene , in the beautiful North Idaho panhandle . The book `` A Thousand Places To See Before You Die '' lists Coeur d'Alene -- it 's a gorgeous paradise for huntsmen , boatmen and fishermen . My growing golf skills came in handy in Coeur d'Alene . What I learned from North Idaho is the peculiar brand of paranoia that can permeate a community when so many cops and guns are around . In North Idaho , in my red pickup truck , I kept a notepad . About a seven-minute drive from my hidden lake cabin was the compound of Aryan Nations , the white supremacist group . Indeed , most white people in Whitopia are neither white supremacists or white separatists ; in fact , they 're not there for explicitly racial reasons at all . Next stop was Georgia . But what does it all mean ? Whitopian dreaming , Whitopia migration , is a push-pull phenomenon , full of alarming pushes and alluring pulls , and Whitopia operates at the level of conscious and unconscious bias . Many of my smug urban liberal friends could n't believe I would go on such a venture . As Americans , we often find ways to cook for each other , to dance with each other , to host with each other , but why ca n't that translate into how we treat each other as communities ? It 's a devastating irony , how we have gone forward as individuals , and backwards as communities . One of the Whitopian outlooks that really hit me was a proverbial saying : `` One black man is a delightful dinner guest ; 50 black men is a ghetto . One of the big contexts animating my Whitopian journey was the year 2042 . I ventured on my two-year , 27,000 mile journey to learn where , why , and how white people are fleeing , but I did n't expect to have so much fun on my journey . Thank you . ( Applause ) 