About four years ago , the New Yorker published an article about a cache of dodo bones that was found in a pit on the island of Mauritius . Now , the island of Mauritius is a small island off the east coast of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean , and it is the place where the dodo bird was discovered and extinguished , all within about 150 years . Everyone was very excited about this archaeological find , because it meant that they might finally be able to assemble a single dodo skeleton . See , while museums all over the world have dodo skeletons in their collection , nobody -- not even the actual Natural History Museum on the island of Mauritius -- has a skeleton that 's made from the bones of a single dodo . Well , this is n't exactly true . The fact is , is that the British Museum had a complete specimen of a dodo in their collection up until the 18th century -- it was actually mummified , skin and all -- but in a fit of space-saving zeal , they actually cut off the head and they cut off the feet and they burned the rest in a bonfire . If you go look at their website today , they 'll actually list these specimens , saying , the rest was lost in a fire . Not quite the whole truth . Anyway . The frontispiece of this article was this photo , and I 'm one of the people that thinks that Tina Brown was great for bringing photos to the New Yorker , because this photo completely rocked my world . I became obsessed with the object -- not just the beautiful photograph itself , and the color , the shallow depth of field , the detail that 's visible , the wire you can see on the beak there that the conservator used to put this skeleton together -- there 's an entire story here . And I thought to myself , would n't it be great if I had my own dodo skeleton ? ( Laughter ) I want to point out here at this point that I 've spent my life obsessed by objects and the stories that they tell , and this was the very latest one . I should point out at this time -- I 'm not a sculptor ; I 'm a hard-edged model maker . However , I felt like I had looked at enough photos of dodo skulls to actually be able to understand the topology and perhaps replicate it -- I mean , it could n't be that difficult . And over a few hours , I eventually achieved what was actually a pretty reasonable dodo skull . And again , I kept on going , looking for more reference , every bit of reference I could find -- drawings , beautiful photos . And this actually represented kind of a sea change to me . And so I went back and looked through my `` Creative Projects '' folder , and I happened across the Maltese Falcon . First of all , there 's the object in the world . And so now it was time to do some research . I found other reference . So now , I had all the topology I needed to replicate the Maltese Falcon . and so I do n't know a lot of the tricks , like , I do n't know how my friend Mike gets beautiful , shiny surfaces with his Sculpey ; I certainly was n't able to get it . is sculpted by a guy named Fred Sexton . So here I had this Falcon , and it was lovely . And this thing , it 's deeply , deeply satisfying to me . But there 's a problem . There are several people who own originals , and I have been attempting to contact them and reach them , hoping that they will let me spend a few minutes in the presence of one of the real birds , maybe to take a picture , or even to pull out the hand-held laser scanner that I happen to own that fits inside a cereal box , and could maybe , without even touching their bird , I swear , get a perfect 3D scan . 