The work of a transportation commissioner is n't just about stop signs and traffic signals . It involves the design of cities and the design of city streets . Streets are some of the most valuable resources that a city has , and yet it 's an asset that 's largely hidden in plain sight . And the lesson from New York over the past six years is that you can update this asset . You can remake your streets quickly , inexpensively , it can provide immediate benefits , and it can be quite popular . You just need to look at them a little differently . This is important because we live in an urban age . For the first time in history , most people live in cities , and the U.N. estimates that over the next 40 years , the population is going to double on the planet . So the design of cities is a key issue for our future . Mayor Bloomberg recognized this when he launched PlaNYC in 2007 . The plan recognized that cities are in a global marketplace , and that if we 're going to continue to grow and thrive and to attract the million more people that are expected to move here , we need to focus on the quality of life and the efficiency of our infrastructure . For many cities , our streets have been in a kind of suspended animation for generations . This is a picture of Times Square in the '50s , and despite all of the technological innovation , cultural changes , political changes , this is Times Square in 2008 . Not much has changed in those 50 years . So we worked hard to refocus our agenda , to maximize efficient mobility , providing more room for buses , more room for bikes , more room for people to enjoy the city , and to make our streets as safe as they can be for everybody that uses them . We set out a clear action plan with goals and benchmarks . Having goals is important , because if you want to change and steer the ship of a big city in a new direction , you need to know where you 're going and why . The design of a street can tell you everything about what 's expected on it . In this case , it 's expected that you shelter in place . The design of this street is really to maximize the movement of cars moving as quickly as possible from point A to point B , and it misses all the other ways that a street is used . When we started out , we did some early surveys about how our streets were used , and we found that New York City was largely a city without seats . Pictures like this , people perched on a fire hydrant , not the mark of a world-class city . ( Laughter ) It 's not great for parents with kids . So we worked hard to change that balance , and probably the best example of our new approach is in Times Square . Every project has its surprises , and one of the big surprises with Times Square was how quickly people flocked to the space . This is the final design for Times Square , and it will create a level surface , sidewalk to sidewalk , beautiful pavers that have studs in them to reflect the light from the billboards , creating a great new energy on the street , and we think it 's going to really create a great place , a new crossroads of the world that is worthy of its name . With all of our projects , our public space projects , we work closely with local businesses and local merchant groups who maintain the spaces , move the furniture , take care of the plants . And we 've done these projects all across the city in all kinds of neighborhoods . We 've moved very , very quickly with paint and temporary materials . All told , we 've created over 50 pedestrian plazas in all five boroughs across the city . I think one of the successes is in its emulation . We also brought this quick-acting approach to our cycling program , and in six years turned cycling into a real transportation option in New York . And we moved quickly to create an interconnected network of lanes . ( Applause ) We protected bikers by floating parking lanes , and it 's been great . Not everybody liked the new bike lanes , and there was a lawsuit and somewhat of a media frenzy a couple years ago . ( Laughter ) And this is what we had done . This summer , we launched Citi Bike , the largest bike share program in the United States , with 6,000 bikes and 330 stations located next to one another . And daily usage just continues to soar . We 've also brought this approach to our buses , and New York City has the largest bus fleet in North America , the slowest bus speeds . I think one of my very favorite moments as transportation commissioner was the day that we launched Citi Bike , and I was riding Citi Bike up First Avenue in my protected bike lane , and I looked over and I saw pedestrians standing safely on the pedestrian islands , and the traffic was flowing , birds were singing -- ( Laughter ) -- the buses were speeding up their dedicated lanes . And this is how it looked six years ago . And so , I think that the lesson that we have from New York is that it 's possible to change your streets quickly , it 's not expensive , it can provide immediate benefits , and it can be quite popular . Thank you . ( Applause ) 