People are living longer and societies are getting grayer . You hear about it all the time . You read about it in your newspapers . You hear about it on your television sets . Sometimes I 'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we 've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency , even ease . But make no mistake , longer lives can and , I believe , will improve quality of life at all ages . Now to put this in perspective , let me just zoom out for a minute . More years were added to average life expectancy in the 20th century than all years added across all prior millennia of human evolution combined . In the blink of an eye , we nearly doubled the length of time that we 're living . So if you ever feel like you do n't have this aging thing quite pegged , do n't kick yourself . It 's brand new . And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up , that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population , with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle . And now , if you 're the kind of person who can get chills from population statistics , these are the ones that should do it . Because what that means is that for the first time in the history of the species , the majority of babies born in the Developed World are having the opportunity to grow old . How did this happen ? Well we 're no genetically hardier than our ancestors were 10,000 years ago . This increase in life expectancy is the remarkable product of culture -- the crucible that holds science and technology and wide-scale changes in behavior that improve health and well-being . Through cultural changes , our ancestors largely eliminated early death so that people can now live out their full lives . Now there are problems associated with aging -- diseases , poverty , loss of social status . It 's hardly time to rest on our laurels . But the more we learn about aging , the clearer it becomes that a sweeping downward course is grossly inaccurate . Aging brings some rather remarkable improvements -- increased knowledge , expertise -- and emotional aspects of life improve . That 's right , older people are happy . They 're happier than middle-aged people , and younger people certainly . Study after study is coming to the same conclusion . The CDC recently conducted a survey where they asked respondents simply to tell them whether they experienced significant psychological distress in the previous week . And fewer older people answered affirmatively to that question than middle-aged people , and younger people as well . And a recent Gallup poll asked participants how much stress and worry and anger they had experienced the previous day . And stress , worry , anger all decrease with age . Now social scientists call this the paradox of aging . After all , aging is not a piece of cake . So we 've asked all sorts of questions to see if we could undo this finding . We 've asked whether it may be that the current generations of older people are and always have been the greatest generations . That is that younger people today may not typically experience these improvements as they grow older . We 've asked , well maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence . ( Laughter ) But the more we 've tried to disavow this finding , the more evidence we find to support it . Years ago , my colleagues and I embarked on a study where we followed the same group of people over a 10-year period . And using this intense study of individuals , we find that it 's not one particular generation that 's doing better than the others , but the same individuals over time come to report relatively greater positive experience . Now it 's really too simplistic to say that older people are `` happy . And all things being equal , older people direct their cognitive resources , like attention and memory , to positive information more than negative . But as social scientists , we continue to ask about possible alternatives . So how can this be ? Well in our research , we 've found that these changes are grounded fundamentally in the uniquely human ability to monitor time -- not just clock time and calendar time , but lifetime . ( Laughter ) As we age , our time horizons grow shorter and our goals change . By 2015 , there will be more people in the United States over the age of 60 than under 15 . My father , who is 92 , likes to say , `` Let 's stop talking only about how to save the old folks and start talking about how to get them to save us all . Thank you . ( Applause ) 