Pat Mitchell : What is the story of this pin ? Madeleine Albright : This is `` Breaking the Glass Ceiling . '' PM : Oh . That was well chosen , I would say , for TEDWomen . MA : Most of the time I spend when I get up in the morning is trying to figure out what is going to happen . And none of this pin stuff would have happened if it had n't been for Saddam Hussein . I 'll tell you what happened . I went to the United Nations as an ambassador , and it was after the Gulf War , and I was an instructed ambassador . And the cease-fire had been translated into a series of sanctions resolutions , and my instructions were to say perfectly terrible things about Saddam Hussein constantly , which he deserved -- he had invaded another country . And so all of a sudden , a poem appeared in the papers in Baghdad comparing me to many things , but among them an `` unparalleled serpent . '' And so I happened to have a snake pin . So I wore it when we talked about Iraq . ( Laughter ) And when I went out to meet the press , they zeroed in , said , `` Why are you wearing that snake pin ? '' I said , `` Because Saddam Hussein compared me to an unparalleled serpent . PM : So how large is the collection ? MA : Pretty big . ( Laughter ) PM : So is this a good idea . MA : Well , it 's pretty irritating actually because nobody ever describes what a man is wearing . PM : It is , for all of us , men and women , finding our ways of defining our roles , and doing them in ways that make a difference in the world and shape the future . MA : Well the interesting part was I was asked what it was like to be the first woman Secretary of State a few minutes after I 'd been named . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) PM : Because in her lifetime -- MA : That would be so . PM : What a change that is . MA : I think we 're slowly changing , but obviously there are whole pockets in countries where nothing is different . PM : And did you get pushback from making that a central tenant of foreign policy ? MA : From some people . ( Laughter ) PM : Is that `` Girl 7 ? '' MA : Girl 7 . And we lobbied on behalf of women 's issues . ( Applause ) PM : So when you look around the world and you see that , in many cases -- certainly in the Western world -- women are evolving into more leadership positions , and even other places some barriers are being brought down , but there 's still so much violence , still so many problems , and yet we hear there are more women at the negotiating tables . MA : Well I do think , when there are more women , that the tone of the conversation changes , and also the goals of the conversation change . When I was Secretary of State , there were only 13 other women foreign ministers . PM : So how do we get this balance we 're looking for , then , in the world ? More women 's voices at the table ? More men who believe that the balance is best ? MA : Well I think one of the things -- I 'm chairman of the board of an organization called the National Democratic Institute that works to support women candidates . ( Applause ) PM : Well Secretary Albright , I guess you 'll be going to heaven . MA : Thank you all . ( Applause ) 