This is a play called `` Sell/Buy/Date . '' It 's my first since `` Bridge and Tunnel , '' which I did on Broadway , and this one , I -- thank you -- I 've excerpted it just for you , so here we go . Right . Class , let 's be absolutely certain all electronic devices are switched off before we begin . So class , hopefully you 'll recognize what you just heard me say as the -- ? Very good , the cellular phone announcement . Right ? This was also known as a mobile phone . So you 'll remember , people of that era would have had an external electronic device , right , something like this , and they all would have carried one of these around with them , and amongst their biggest fears was the sheer mortification that one of these might ring at some inopportune moment . Right ? So a bit of trivia about that era for you . ( Laughter ) So the format of today 's class is I will be presenting multiple BERT modules today from that period in history , right , so starting circa 2016 . Okay honey , now , I 'm ready when you are . Oh , that 's the first question ? What do I think of prostitution ? Are you soliciting me , young man ? I 've heard of May-December romances , but what are you , about 20 years old ? Eighteen ? Eighteen years . Right , so next subject is a young woman -- ( Applause ) -- Next subject , class , is a young woman called Bella , a university student interviewed in 2016 during what was called an Intro to Feminist Porn class as part of her major in sex work at a college in the Bay Area . Yeah , I just want to , like , get a recording of , like , you guys recording me , like a meta recording , or whatever . So , like , hello , BERT person of the future who is experiencing me . So for your record , I am , like , a sex work studies major but minoring in social media with a concentration on notable YouTube memes . Right , class . All right , you want me to start talking now . Right , so that 's the part where I was telling you is that when I first came to this country , I worked every job I could find . Thanks , that 's lovely , and just the cup of tea , love , and just a splash of the whiskey . Right . No , my one sister Virginia gave me a fiver for the coach to Dublin , and that 's how I ended up here . Well , he did n't drink , but he did have just the wee heroin problem , did n't he , and -- That 's right , and before I knew it , he was the one who turned me on to the prostitution , my own husband . All right , so four perspectives from four quite -- ( Applause ) -- four quite different voices there , right ? One woman saying sex itself is natural but the sex industry seems to mechanize or industrialize it . So another fact most people did not know was the average age of an at-risk girl being introduced to the sex industry was 12 or 13 . Also consider that the age when all girls in that society first became exposed to sexualized images of women was quite a bit earlier , right ? This was a doll called Barbie , right ? I initially thought she was an educational tool for anorexia prevention -- ( Laughter ) -- but actually she was considered by many to be a wholesome symbol of femininity , and often young girls began what was called dieting . Yes ? Right , Bradley , okay , excellent point . Yes . Dude , can you , all right , can you just keep it down ? I 'm trying to talk to BERT right now . Of course I believe in women 's rights . Yeah , she knows I 'm here . My best man , I told him he could surprise me , and he thought this would be hilarious , but this is not something . Yeah , so , dude , can you guys -- All right , but it 's my bachelor party , and I can spend it in the parking lot with Anderson Cooper if I want to . All right , okay , so Anderson , so , like , first of all , stripping , but then , like , all the other things you 're talking about , prostitution and all that stuff , that 's , like , not the same thing at all . Whoa , whoa , I hear what you 're saying , but I just feel like people , they just want to make it seem like all dudes are just , like , predators , that we would just automatically go to a prostitute , or whatever . Yeah , but , you ca n't blame the media , either . Well , yeah , okay , like , if you 're a little kid or whatever , of course it 's different , but -- Yeah , all right , I remember one thing like that . Dude , are you from Canada ? ( Laughter ) So , like , whatever , with Grand Theft Auto , you 're this kid , like , you 're this guy walking around or whatever , and you can basically , like , the more cops you kill , the more points you get , and stuff like that . All right class , so then there were men who had more than just a passing relationship to this issue . Thank you so much , you beautiful TED audience . ( Applause ) 