What you have here is an electronic cigarette . It 's something that 's , since it was invented a year or two ago , has given me untold happiness . ( Laughter ) A little bit of it , I think , is the nicotine , but there 's something much bigger than that . So the power of reframing things can not be overstated . In England the upper middle classes have actually solved this problem perfectly , because they 've re-branded unemployment . There 's an experiment I think Daniel Pink refers to where you put two dogs in a box and the box has an electric floor . The circumstances of our lives may actually matter less to our happiness than the sense of control we feel over our lives . So I 'll give you one in return . So people who believed in psychological solutions did n't have a model . You know my example of the Eurostar . Why were we not given the chance to solve that problem psychologically ? I think it 's because there 's an imbalance , an asymmetry , in the way we treat creative , emotionally-driven psychological ideas versus the way we treat rational , numerical , spreadsheet-driven ideas . An example of a great psychological idea : The single best improvement in passenger satisfaction on the London Underground per pound spent came when they did n't add any extra trains nor change the frequency of the trains , they put dot matrix display board on the platforms . Here 's a beautiful example of a psychological solution deployed in Korea . This is all I 'm asking for really in human decision making , is the consideration of these three things . If you actually look at a great business , you 'll nearly always see all of these three things coming into play . Everybody else at the time of Google , more or less , was trying to be a portal . I propose that we can use psychology to solve problems that we did n't even realize were problems at all . One of the great mistakes , I think , of economics is it fails to understand that what something is , whether it 's retirement , unemployment , cost , is a function , not only of its amount , but also its meaning . This is a toll crossing in Britain . The only problem is if you introduce this economically efficient solution , people hate it . So where economists make the fundamental mistake is they think that money is money . Here 's a guy you all need to study . Von Mises , interestingly , believes economics is just a subset of psychology . We tend to , all of us -- even those of us who work in marketing -- to think of value in two ways . Now von Mises said that modern economists make exactly the same mistake with regard to advertising and marketing . Try this quick thought experiment . If that seems like some strange , abstruse thing , in the U.K. , the post office had a 98 percent success rate at delivering first-class mail the next day . Choose your frame of reference and the perceived value and therefore the actual value is completely tranformed . What you also notice is that in any case our perception is leaky . Analgesics that are branded are more effective at reducing pain than analgesics that are not branded . ( Applause ) 