What would be a good end of life ? And I 'm talking about the very end . I 'm talking about dying . We all think a lot about how to live well . I 'd like to talk about increasing our chances of dying well . I 'm not a geriatrician . I design reading programs for preschoolers . What I know about this topic comes from a qualitative study with a sample size of two . In the last few years , I helped two friends have the end of life they wanted . Jim and Shirley Modini spent their 68 years of marriage living off the grid on their 1,700-acre ranch in the mountains of Sonoma County . They kept just enough livestock to make ends meet so that the majority of their ranch would remain a refuge for the bears and lions and so many other things that lived there . This was their dream . I met Jim and Shirley in their 80s . They were both only children who chose not to have kids . As we became friends , I became their trustee and their medical advocate , but more importantly , I became the person who managed their end-of-life experiences . And we learned a few things about how to have a good end . In their final years , Jim and Shirley faced cancers , fractures , infections , neurological illness . It 's true . At the end , our bodily functions and independence are declining to zero . What we found is that , with a plan and the right people , quality of life can remain high . The beginning of the end is triggered by a mortality awareness event , and during this time , Jim and Shirley chose ACR nature preserves to take their ranch over when they were gone . This gave them the peace of mind to move forward . It might be a diagnosis . It might be your intuition . But one day , you 're going to say , `` This thing is going to get me . '' Jim and Shirley spent this time letting friends know that their end was near and that they were okay with that . Dying from cancer and dying from neurological illness are different . In both cases , last days are about quiet reassurance . Jim died first . He was conscious until the very end , but on his last day he could n't talk . Through his eyes , we knew when he needed to hear again , `` It is all set , Jim . We 're going to take care of Shirley right here at the ranch , and ACR 's going to take care of your wildlife forever . '' From this experience I 'm going to share five practices . I 've put worksheets online , so if you 'd like , you can plan your own end . It starts with a plan . Most people say , `` I 'd like to die at home . '' Eighty percent of Americans die in a hospital or a nursing home . Saying we 'd like to die at home is not a plan . A lot of people say , `` If I get like that , just shoot me . '' This is not a plan either ; this is illegal . ( Laughter ) A plan involves answering straightforward questions about the end you want . You will need advocates . Hospital readiness is critical . You 're going to need caregivers . Finally , last words . So , this is a topic that normally inspires fear and denial . Jim and Shirley had a good end of life , and by sharing their story with you , I hope to increase our chances of doing the same . Thank you . ( Applause ) 