I 've got apparently 18 minutes to convince you that history has a direction , an arrow ; that in some fundamental sense , it 's good ; that the arrow points to something positive . Now , when the TED people first approached me about giving this upbeat talk -- ( Laughter ) -- that was before the cartoon of Muhammad had triggered global rioting . I 've got to warn you : the sense in which my worldview is upbeat has always been kind of subtle , sometimes even elusive . Now , in one sense , the claim that history has a direction is not that controversial . But then at some point , one of these multicellular organisms does something completely amazing with this stuff , which is it launches a whole second kind of evolution : cultural evolution . This may not seem to impress , but technological evolution is progressive , so another 10 , 20,000 years , and armaments technology takes you here . So , what threatens to happen with this unfolding apocalypse is the collapse of global social organization . I want to stress , you know , social organization can transcend political bounds . Now , I explained this growth of complexity by reference to something called `` non-zero sumness . The argument I make is basically that , well , non-zero-sum games have always been part of life . Now , this sounds like an intrinsically upbeat worldview in a way , because when you think of non-zero , you think win-win , you know , that 's good . So , in a way , the question is : on what grounds am I upbeat at all about history ? And the answer is , first of all , on balance I would say people have played their games to more win-win outcomes than lose-lose outcomes . 2,500 years ago , members of one Greek city-state considered members of another Greek city-state subhuman and treated them that way . But this was progress -- you know , give them credit . I kind of think this is a kind of a business-class morality . Now , back to the unfolding apocalypse . And I would say the non-zero-sum dynamic is only going to grow more intense over time because of technological trends , but more intense in a kind of negative way . And there 's something I worry about especially , which is that this dynamic will lead to a kind of a feedback cycle that puts us on a slippery slope . So , what do we do ? Well , first of all , we can do a lot more with arms control , the international regulation of dangerous technologies . That is to say -- ( Laughter ) -- thank you , thank you . So , these two things , you know , if they get people 's attention and drive home the positive correlation and people do what 's in their self-interests , which is further the moral evolution , then they could actually have a constructive effect . Now , launching a moral revolution has got to be hard , right ? I mean , what do you do ? And I think the answer is a lot of different people are going to have to do a lot of different things . It 's especially hard to do when people hate you , OK , because you do n't really , in a sense , want to completely understand why people hate you . work on . There are people who worry about this , and in fact , I , myself , apparently , was denounced on national TV a couple of nights ago because of an op-ed I 'd written . So I 'm not really worried about it . Now , social organization has reached the global level , and I guess , if there 's good news I can say I 'm bringing you , it 's just that all the salvation of the world requires is the intelligent pursuit of self-interests in a disciplined and careful way . 