An image is worth more than a thousand words , so I 'm going to start my talk by stop talking and show you a few images that I recently captured . So by now , my talk is already 6,000 words long , and I feel like I should stop here . ( Laughter ) At the same time , I probably owe you some explanation about the images that you just saw . What I find very intriguing about those two is that they both look at the same thing : They are a response to their surroundings . The first one has to do with making sound visible . ( Music : `` Teardrop '' by Massive Attack ) ( Applause ) Thank you very much . But I have to tell you a funny story . Let me now turn to another project which involves less harmful substances . ( Laughter ) Ferrofluid has a very strange behavior . Now I 've got a live demonstration over here to show this to you . Let 's just slightly move it to the right and maybe focus it a little bit more . So what you can see now is that the ferrofluid has formed spikes . Let me now turn to the last project , which involves the national beverage of Scotland . This image , and also this one , were made using whiskey . Now , whiskey contains 40 percent of alcohol , and alcohol has got some very interesting properties . Let me demonstrate this over here . ( Laughter ) So that 's all that happens . But let me show you a slow motion in a completely darkened room of what I just showed you in this live demonstration . ( Applause ) Thank you . So , I have now showed you three projects , and you might ask yourself , what is it good for ? What 's the idea behind it ? Is it just a waste of whiskey ? Is it just some strange materials ? Those three projects , they 're based on very simple scientific phenomena , such as magnetism , the sound waves , or over here , the physical properties of a substance , and what I 'm trying to do is I 'm trying to use these phenomena and show them in a poetic and unseen way , and therefore invite the viewer to pause for a moment and think about all the beauty that is constantly surrounding us . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 