I 'm going to talk about religion . But it 's a broad and very delicate subject , so I have to limit myself . And therefore I will limit myself to only talk about the links between religion and sexuality . ( Laughter ) This is a very serious talk . This is indeed important , because everyone understands that there is some sort of limit on how many people we can be on this planet . To what extent are these people right ? When I was born there was less than one billion children in the world , and today , 2000 , there 's almost two billion . This is a quiz . But now , what does religion have to do with it ? When you want to classify religion , it 's more difficult than you think . Therefore at Gapminder we made our own map , and it looks like this . So bear with our simplicity now when I take you over to this shot . And indeed in 1960 , you had to be a rich Christian to have few babies . Now let 's see what has happened in the world . ( Applause ) It 's a quite amazing development which has happened . I can tell you that the data on the number of children per woman is surprisingly good in all countries . So what we can conclude is you do n't have to get rich to have few children . And then when we look at religions , we can see that the Eastern religions , indeed there 's not one single country with a majority of that religion that has more than three children . Many think that Afghanistan here and Congo , which have suffered severe conflicts , that they do n't have fast population growth . Let me compare Senegal , a Muslim dominated country , with a Christian dominated country , Ghana . So what does it take ? Well we know quite well what is needed in these countries . But let me illustrate that fourth factor by looking at Qatar . And what is the reason in Qatar ? Well I do as I always do . So what it is , is these four : Children should survive , children should n't be needed for work , women should get education and join the labor force and family planning should be accessible . Now look again at this . We have reached peak child . Well I will show you here . So what will happen now is what we call `` the big fill-up . ( Applause ) This is the great fill-up . Religion has very little to do with the number of babies per woman . And we will be just 10 billion in this world , if the poorest people get out of poverty , their children survive , they get access to family planning . 