Beau Lotto : So , this game is very simple . All you have to do is read what you see . Right ? So , I 'm going to count to you , so we do n't all do it together . Okay , one , two , three.Audience : Can you read this ? BL : Amazing . What about this one ? One , two , three.Audience : You are not reading this . BL : All right . One , two , three . ( Laughter ) If you were Portuguese , right ? How about this one ? One , two , three . Audience : What are you reading ? BL : What are you reading ? There are no words there . It 's because perception is grounded in our experience . ( Video ) Man : Ow ! Ow ! ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) BL : And sometimes , when things do n't go our way , we get a little bit annoyed , right ? But we 're talking about perception here , right ? And perception underpins everything we think , we know , we believe , our hopes , our dreams , the clothes we wear , falling in love , everything begins with perception . Now , I want to tell you a story about seeing differently , and all new perceptions begin in the same way . So what is evolution 's answer to the problem of uncertainty ? It 's play . Now if you look at these five ways of being , these are the exact same ways of being you need in order to be a good scientist . So armed with these two ideas , that science is a way of being and experiments are play , we asked , can anyone become a scientist ? And who better to ask than 25 eight- to 10-year-old children ? Because they 're experts in play . The first step was to ask a question . Now , I should say that we did n't get funding for this study because the scientists said small children could n't make a useful contribution to science , and the teachers said kids could n't do it . So , here are some of the questions . Now here , I want to share the stage with someone quite special . Amy O'Toole : Thank you , Beau . BL : So the next step was to design an experiment , which is a game . AO : The puzzle we came up with was an if-then rule . BL : Including the teachers , and that was really hard for the teachers . ( Video ) Dave Strudwick : So what we 're going to do —Student : 5C . Dave Strudwick : Is she still going up here ? Student : Yeah . Dave Strudwick : So you keep track of each.Student : Henry , can you help me here ? BL : `` Can you help me , Henry ? '' What good scientist says that , right ? Student : There 's two up there . BL : Right ? So we 've got our observations . Now , I tell them , a paper has four different sections : an introduction , a methods , a results , a discussion . So the kids give me the words , right ? I put it into a narrative , which means that this paper is written in kidspeak . So we said , we 'll get it reviewed . So what did we do ? We send it back to the editor . It took four months to do the science , two years to get it published . `` I have read 'Blackawton Bees ' recently . So I 'd like to conclude with a physical metaphor . Shimon Schocken : Right , but I like myself . BL : This is the epitome of technology . Now , we 're going to do a little demonstration , right ? You have to close your eyes , and you have to point where you hear me clapping . ( Clapping ) ( Clapping ) Okay , how about if everyone over there shouts . Audience : ( Shouts ) ( Laughter ) ( Shouts ) ( Laughter ) Brilliant . Thank you very much . What 's the point ? The point is what science does for us . Now , true science education I think should be about giving people a voice and enabling to express that voice , so I 've asked Amy to be the last voice in this short story . AO : This project was really exciting for me , because it brought the process of discovery to life , and it showed me that anyone , and I mean anyone , has the potential to discover something new , and that a small question can lead into a big discovery . Thank you.BL : Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 