So over the past few centuries , microscopes have revolutionized our world . They revealed to us a tiny world of objects , life and structures that are too small for us to see with our naked eyes . They are a tremendous contribution to science and technology . Today I 'd like to introduce you to a new type of microscope , a microscope for changes . It does n't use optics like a regular microscope to make small objects bigger , but instead it uses a video camera and image processing to reveal to us the tiniest motions and color changes in objects and people , changes that are impossible for us to see with our naked eyes . And it lets us look at our world in a completely new way . So what do I mean by color changes ? Our skin , for example , changes its color very slightly when the blood flows under it . That change is incredibly subtle , which is why , when you look at other people , when you look at the person sitting next to you , you do n't see their skin or their face changing color . When we look at this video of Steve here , it appears to us like a static picture , but once we look at this video through our new , special microscope , suddenly we see a completely different image . What you see here are small changes in the color of Steve 's skin , magnified 100 times so that they become visible . We can actually see a human pulse . We can see how fast Steve 's heart is beating , but we can also see the actual way that the blood flows in his face . And we can do that not just to visualize the pulse , but also to actually recover our heart rates , and measure our heart rates . And we can do it with regular cameras and without touching the patients . So here you see the pulse and heart rate we extracted from a neonatal baby from a video we took with a regular DSLR camera , and the heart rate measurement we get is as accurate as the one you 'd get with a standard monitor in a hospital . And it does n't even have to be a video we recorded . We can do it essentially with other videos as well . So I just took a short clip from `` Batman Begins '' here just to show Christian Bale 's pulse . ( Laughter ) And you know , presumably he 's wearing makeup , the lighting here is kind of challenging , but still , just from the video , we 're able to extract his pulse and show it quite well . So how do we do all that ? We basically analyze the changes in the light that are recorded at every pixel in the video over time , and then we crank up those changes . But it turns out we can do that not just to show tiny changes in color , but also tiny motions , and that 's because the light that gets recorded in our cameras will change not only if the color of the object changes , but also if the object moves . And ever since we discovered this new technology , we made our code available online so that others could use and experiment with it . So this video was made by a YouTube user called Tamez85 . You can also do some art with it . But we did n't stop there . We also know that singers can break a wine glass if they hit the correct note . So that 's exactly what we did . ( Music : `` Mary Had a Little Lamb '' ) And this is a high-speed video we recorded of that bag of chips . ( Music : `` Mary Had a Little Lamb '' ) I call it -- Thank you . We can recover sounds from other objects , like plants . ( Music : `` Mary Had a Little Lamb '' ) And we can recover speech as well . Voice : Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow , and everywhere that Mary went , that lamb was sure to go . Michael Rubinstein : And here 's that speech again recovered just from this video of that same bag of chips . Voice : Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow , and everywhere that Mary went , that lamb was sure to go . MR : We used `` Mary Had a Little Lamb '' because those are said to be the first words that Thomas Edison spoke into his phonograph in 1877 . Here 's a demonstration of recording and replaying sound with Edison 's phonograph . ( Video ) Voice : Testing , testing , one two three . MR : And now , 137 years later , we 're able to get sound in pretty much similar quality but by just watching objects vibrate to sound with cameras , and we can even do that when the camera is 15 feet away from the object , behind soundproof glass . So this is the sound that we were able to recover in that case . Voice : Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow , and everywhere that Mary went , the lamb was sure to go . MR : And of course , surveillance is the first application that comes to mind . We 've only just begun exploring other possible uses for this new technology . This is our team . Thank you . ( Applause ) 