Pat Mitchell : Your first time back on the TEDWomen stage . Sheryl Sandberg : First time back . Nice to see everyone . It 's always so nice to look out and see so many women . It 's so not my regular experience , as I know anyone else 's . PM : So when we first started talking about , maybe the subject would n't be social media , which we assumed it would be , but that you had very much on your mind the missing leadership positions , particularly in the sector of technology and social media . But how did that evolve for you as a thought , and end up being the TED Talk that you gave ? SS : So I was really scared to get on this stage and talk about women , because I grew up in the business world , as I think so many of us did . You never talk about being a woman , because someone might notice that you 're a woman , right ? They might notice . Or worse , if you say `` woman , '' people on the other end of the table think you 're asking for special treatment , or complaining . Or worse , about to sue them . And so I went through -- ( Laughter ) Right ? I went through my entire business career , and never spoke about being a woman , never spoke about it publicly . I came out of college over 20 years ago , and I thought that all of my peers were men and women , all the people above me were all men , but that would change , because your generation had done such an amazing job fighting for equality , equality was now ours for the taking . But fortunately , there were the few , the proud -- like you -- who told me I should give the speech , and I asked myself the question Mark Zuckerberg might -- the founder of Facebook and my boss -- asks all of us , which is , what would I do if I was n't afraid ? And the answer to what would I do if I was n't afraid is I would get on the TED stage , and talk about women , and leadership . PM : I would say , not only survived . SS : Oh , yeah . SS : Well , it 's an important part of the journey . And you looked at me and said , you have to tell that story . The same thing happened when I wrote my book . PM : I think that one of the most striking parts about the book , and in my opinion , one of the reasons it 's hit such a nerve and is resonating around the world , is that you are personal in the book , and that you do make it clear that , while you 've observed some things that are very important for other women to know , that you 've had the same challenges that many others of us have , as you faced the hurdles and the barriers and possibly the people who do n't believe the same . SS : After I did the TED Talk , what happened was -- you know , I never really expected to write a book , I 'm not an author , I 'm not a writer , and it was viewed a lot , and it really started impacting people 's lives . And what really mattered to me -- it was n't only women in the corporate world , even though I did hear from a lot of them , and it did impact a lot of them , it was also people of all different circumstances . PM : And in the book , you not only found your voice , which is clear and strong in the book , but you also share what you 've learned -- the experiences of other people in the lessons . SS : I mean , I 'm grateful , I 'm honored , I 'm happy , and it 's the very beginning . Now we have , all over the world , women are called `` bossy . Now I know there are n't a lot of men here , but bear with me . Now , do we think women are more aggressive than men ? Of course not . One of the happiest moments I had in this whole journey is , after the book came out , I stood on a stage with John Chambers , the CEO of Cisco . PM : Can we send that to a lot of other people that we know ? ( Applause ) SS : And so John is doing that because he believes it 's good for his company , and so this kind of acknowledgement of these biases can change it . PM : I know that 's what you 're telling your daughter . PM : And you did focus in the book -- and the reason , as you said , in writing it , was to create a dialogue about this . SS : Well , there 's certainly more dialogue , which is great . Everywhere I go , women tell me they ask for raises . The foundation I started along with the book `` Lean In '' helps women , or men , start circles -- small groups , it can be 10 , it can be however many you want , which meet once a month . PM : Wow , that 's amazing . SS : And these are people who are meeting every single month . PM : Have you been surprised by the global nature of the message ? Because I think when the book first came out , many people thought , well , this is a really important handbook for young women on their way up . SS : The book is about self-confidence , and about equality . Again , I 'm going to turn to the men in the audience : Please raise your hand if you 've been asked , how do you do it all ? ( Laughter ) Men only . And I think people do n't fully understand how broad the message is . PM : If you were invited now to make another TEDWomen talk , what would you say that is a result of this experience , for you personally , and what you 've learned about women , and men , as you 've made this journey ? SS : I think I would say -- I tried to say this strongly , but I think I can say it more strongly -- I want to say that the status quo is not enough . PM : And we all need to do a lot more leaning in . SS : A lot more leaning in . PM : Thank you , Sheryl . SS : Thank you . ( Applause ) 