( Music ) [ `` Oedipus Rex '' ] [ `` The Lion King '' ] [ `` Titus '' ] [ `` Frida '' ] [ `` The Magic Flute '' ] [ `` Across The Universe '' ] ( Applause ) Julie Taymor : Thank you . Thank you very much . That 's a few samples of the theater , opera and films that I have done over the last 20 years . But what I 'd like to begin with right now is to take you back to a moment that I went through in Indonesia , which is a seminal moment in my life and , like all myths , these stories need to be retold and told , lest we forget them . And when I 'm in the turbulent times , as we know , that I am right now , through the crucible and the fire of transformation , which is what all of you do , actually . Anybody who creates knows there 's that point where it has n't quite become the phoenix or the burnt char . ( Laughter ) And I am right there on the edge , which I 'll tell you about , another story . I want to go back to Indonesia where I was about 21 , 22 years , a long time ago , on a fellowship . And as I sat in this temple square under this gigantic beringin banyan tree , in the dark , there was no electricity , just the full moon , down in this empty square , and I heard the most beautiful sounds , like a Charles Ives concert as I listened to the gamelan music from all the different villagers that came for this once-every-five-years ceremony . `` Huhuhuhuhuhuhuhahahahaha . And they moved their bodies and they came forward , and the lights bounced off these costumes . But somehow , it did n't matter about the publicity . So what I gained and gathered from this incredible , seminal moment in my life as a young artist was that you must be true to what you believe as an artist all the way through , but you also have to be aware that the audience is out there in our lives at this time , and they also need the light . What I would like to do now is to tell you a little bit about how I work . I start with the notion of the ideograph . And you see the mechanics . So in the theater , as much as the story is critical and the book and the language , the telling of the story , how it 's told , the mechanics , the methods that you use , is equal to the story itself . So now I 'm going to show you some clips from the other big project of my life this year , `` The Tempest . ( Music ) ( Video ) Prospera : Hast thou , spirit , performed to the point the tempest that I bade thee ? Ariel : I boarded the king 's ship . Prospera : At first sight , they have changed eyes . Miranda : Do you love me ? Ferdinand : Beyond all limit . HM : They are both in either 's powers . Trinculo : Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows . ( Music ) Looking for business , governor ? Caliban : Hast thou not dropped from heaven ? Stephano : Out of the moon , I do assure thee . Prospera : Caliban ! Caliban : This island is mine . Prospera : For this , be sure , tonight thou shalt have cramps . Sebastian : Draw thy sword . Prospera : I will plague them all , even to roaring . Ariel : I have made you mad . Prospera : We are such stuff as dreams are made on . ( Music ) JT : Okay . ( Applause ) So I went from theater , doing `` The Tempest '' on the stage in a very low-budget production many years ago , and I love the play , and I also think it 's Shakespeare 's last play , and it really lends itself , as you can see , to cinema . The ideograph that I talked to you about before , what is it for `` The Tempest '' ? What , if I were to boil it down , would be the one image that I could hang my hat on for this ? And it was the sand castle , the idea of nurture versus nature , that we build these civilizations -- she speaks about it at the end , Helen Mirren 's Prospera -- we build them , but under nature , under the grand tempest , these cloud-capped towers , these gorgeous palaces will fade and there will -- leave not a rack behind . So in the theater , I started the play , it was a black sand rake , white cyc , and there was a little girl , Miranda , on the horizon , building a drip castle , a sand castle . Now the difference when I went and did it in the cinema , I started the actual movie with a close-up of a sand castle , a black sand castle , and what cinema can do is , by using camera , perspective , and also long shots and close-ups , it started on a close-up of the sand castle , and as it pulled away , you saw that it was a miniature sitting in the palm of the girl 's hands . Now I 'm going to take you to `` Spider-Man . ( Music ) ( Video ) Peter Parker : ♪ Standing on the precipice , I can soar away from this . JT : We 're trying to do everything in live theater that you ca n't do in two dimensions in film and television . PP : ♪ Rise above yourself and take control . George Tsypin : We 're looking at New York from a Spider-Man point of view . Ensemble : ♪ Sock ! Pow ! ♪ ♪ Slam ! Scratch ! ♪ Danny Ezralow : I do n't want you to even think there 's a choreographer . ( Music ) JT : If I give enough movement in the sculpture , and the actor moves their head , you feel like it 's alive . ( Music ) Bono : They 're mythologies . PP : ♪ They believe . ( Screams ) ( Music ) ( Applause ) JT : Ohhhh . Well , one last story , very quickly . So I throw away my camera . I know you 've all been there . Thank you . ( Applause ) 