The story starts : I was at a friend 's house , and she had on her shelf a copy of the DSM manual , which is the manual of mental disorders . It lists every known mental disorder . And it used to be , back in the '50s , a very slim pamphlet . And then it got bigger and bigger and bigger , and now it 's 886 pages long . And it lists currently 374 mental disorders . So I was leafing through it , wondering if I had any mental disorders , and it turns out I 've got 12 . ( Laughter ) I 've got generalized anxiety disorder , which is a given . ( Laughter ) I 've got parent-child relational problems , which I blame my parents for . ( Laughter ) I 'm kidding . Anyway , I was looking through this book , wondering if I was much crazier than I thought I was , or maybe it 's not a good idea to diagnose yourself with a mental disorder if you 're not a trained professional , or maybe the psychiatry profession has a kind of strange desire to label what 's essentially normal human behavior as a mental disorder . ( Laughter ) It was a man called Brian , who runs a crack team of Scientologists who are determined to destroy psychiatry wherever it lies . So I got the train to Broadmoor . ( Laughter ) And then Brian said , `` Here 's Tony . And he sat down . Anyway , he faked madness too well , he said . Tony said that it 's a lot harder to convince people you 're sane than it is to convince them you 're crazy . ( Laughter ) He said , `` You know , they 're always looking out for nonverbal clues to my mental state . He said , `` You know , I 've got the Stockwell Strangler on one side of me , and I 've got the 'Tiptoe Through the Tulips ' rapist on the other side of me . And when I got home I emailed his clinician , Anthony Maden . And his clinician said to me , `` If you want to know more about psychopaths , you can go on a psychopath-spotting course run by Robert Hare , who invented the psychopath checklist . So , here 's the statistics : One in a hundred regular people is a psychopath . ( Laughter ) Hare said the reason why is because capitalism at its most ruthless rewards psychopathic behavior -- the lack of empathy , the glibness , cunning , manipulative . So I gave it a try . ( Laughter ) And they did n't reply . ( Laughter ) So I changed tack . ( Laughter ) So I went to Al Dunlap 's grand Florida mansion . ( Laughter ) And then we went into his kitchen . So in his kitchen -- he was in there with his wife , Judy , and his bodyguard , Sean -- and I said , `` You know how I said in my email that you might have a special brain anomaly that makes you special ? '' He said , `` Yeah , it 's an amazing theory , it 's like Star Trek . ( Laughter ) Some psychologists might say that this makes you -- '' ( Mumbles ) ( Laughter ) And he said , `` What ? '' And I said , `` A psychopath . And he looked intrigued despite himself , and he said , `` Okay , go on . ( Laughter ) He said , `` Well , you 've got to believe in you ! '' And I said , `` Manipulative . ( Laughter ) And I said , `` Shallow affect , an inability to experience a range of emotions . ( Laughter ) But I did notice something happening to me the day I was with Al Dunlap . And I realized , my God -- this is what I 've been doing for 20 years . When I got back to London , Tony phoned me . So I went to his tribunal . ( Laughter ) Anyway , that was two years ago , and that 's where my book ended . And then he phoned me . Thank you . ( Applause ) 