When you 're a child , anything and everything is possible . The challenge , so often , is hanging on to that as we grow up . And as a four-year-old , I had the opportunity to sail for the first time . I will never forget the excitement as we closed the coast . I will never forget the feeling of adventure as I climbed on board the boat and stared into her tiny cabin for the first time . But the most amazing feeling was the feeling of freedom , the feeling that I felt when we hoisted her sails . As a four-year-old child , it was the greatest sense of freedom that I could ever imagine . I made my mind up there and then that one day , somehow , I was going to sail around the world . So I did what I could in my life to get closer to that dream . Age 10 , it was saving my school dinner money change . Every single day for eight years , I had mashed potato and baked beans , which cost 4p each , and gravy was free . Every day I would pile up the change on the top of my money box , and when that pile reached a pound , I would drop it in and cross off one of the 100 squares I 'd drawn on a piece of paper . Finally , I bought a tiny dinghy . I spent hours sitting on it in the garden dreaming of my goal . I read every book I could on sailing , and then eventually , having been told by my school I was n't clever enough to be a vet , left school age 17 to begin my apprenticeship in sailing . So imagine how it felt just four years later to be sitting in a boardroom in front of someone who I knew could make that dream come true . I felt like my life depended on that moment , and incredibly , he said yes . And I could barely contain my excitement as I sat in that first design meeting designing a boat on which I was going to sail solo nonstop around the world . From that first meeting to the finish line of the race , it was everything I 'd ever imagined . Just like in my dreams , there were amazing parts and tough parts . We missed an iceberg by 20 feet . Nine times , I climbed to the top of her 90-foot mast . We were blown on our side in the Southern Ocean . But the sunsets , the wildlife , and the remoteness were absolutely breathtaking . After three months at sea , age just 24 , I finished in second position . I 'd loved it , so much so that within six months I decided to go around the world again , but this time not in a race : to try to be the fastest person ever to sail solo nonstop around the world . Now for this , I needed a different craft : bigger , wider , faster , more powerful . Just to give that boat some scale , I could climb inside her mast all the way to the top . Seventy-five foot long , 60 foot wide . I affectionately called her Moby . She was a multihull . When we built her , no one had ever made it solo nonstop around the world in one , though many had tried , but whilst we built her , a Frenchman took a boat 25 percent bigger than her and not only did he make it , but he took the record from 93 days right down to 72 . The bar was now much , much higher . And these boats were exciting to sail . This was a training sail off the French coast . This I know well because I was one of the five crew members on board . Five seconds is all it took from everything being fine to our world going black as the windows were thrust underwater , and that five seconds goes quickly . Just see how far below those guys the sea is . Imagine that alone in the Southern Ocean plunged into icy water , thousands of miles away from land . It was Christmas Day . I was forging into the Southern Ocean underneath Australia . The conditions were horrendous . I was approaching a part in the ocean which was 2,000 miles away from the nearest town . The nearest land was Antarctica , and the nearest people would be those manning the European Space Station above me . ( Laughter ) You really are in the middle of nowhere . The speed I so desperately needed brought with it danger . But out there , those lowest of the lows are so often contrasted with the highest of the highs . It 's hard to explain , but you enter a different mode when you head out there . And never in my life had I ever translated that definition of finite that I 'd felt on board to anything outside of sailing until I stepped off the boat at the finish line having broken that record . ( Applause ) Suddenly I connected the dots . I chose the first . This photo was taken in the burner of a coal-fired power station . We were close . And I quickly realized it was n't just about energy . And the more I learned , the more I started to change my own life . It struck me that the system itself , the framework within which we live , is fundamentally flawed , and I realized ultimately that our operating system , the way our economy functions , the way our economy 's been built , is a system in itself . And I realized we 've been perfecting what 's effectively a linear economy for 150 years , where we take a material out of the ground , we make something out of it , and then ultimately that product gets thrown away , and yes , we do recycle some of it , but more an attempt to get out what we can at the end , not by design . And I felt like the child in the garden . Many schools of thought fed our thinking and pointed to this model : industrial symbiosis , performance economy , sharing economy , biomimicry , and of course , cradle-to-cradle design . So what could this economy look like ? Maybe we would n't buy light fittings , but we 'd pay for the service of light , and the manufacturers would recover the materials and change the light fittings when we had more efficient products . So how would you shift from linear to circular ? Well , the team and I at the foundation thought you might want to work with the top universities in the world , with leading businesses within the world , with the biggest convening platforms in the world , and with governments . So could we achieve this in their lifetimes ? Is it actually possible ? I believe yes . Thank you . ( Applause ) 