I worked on a film called `` Apollo 13 , '' and when I worked on this film , I discovered something about how our brains work , and how our brains work is that , when we 're sort of infused with either enthusiasm or awe or fondness or whatever , it changes and alters our perception of things . It changes what we see . It changes what we remember . And as an experiment , because I dauntingly create a task for myself of recreating a Saturn V launch for this particular movie , because I put it out there , I felt a little nervous about it , so I need to do an experiment and bring a group of people like this in a projection room and play this stock footage , and when I played this stock footage , I simply wanted to find out what people remembered , what was memorable about it ? What should I actually try to replicate ? What should I try to emulate to some degree ? So this is the footage that I was showing everybody . And what I discovered is , because of the nature of the footage and the fact that we 're doing this film , there was an emotion that was built into it and our collective memories of what this launch meant to us and all these various things . When I showed it , and I asked , immediately after the screening was over , what they thought of it , what was your memorable shots , they changed them . They were -- had camera moves on them . They had all kinds of things . Shots were combined , and I was just really curious , I mean , what the hell were you looking at just a few minutes ago and how come , how 'd you come up with this sort of description ? And what I discovered is , what I should do is not actually replicate what they saw , is replicate what they remembered . So this is our footage of the launch , based on , basically , taking notes , asking people what they thought , and then the combination of all the different shots and all the different things put together created their sort of collective consciousness of what they remembered it looked like , but not what it really looked like . So this is what we created for `` Apollo 13 . '' ( Launch noises ) So literally what you 're seeing now is the confluence of a bunch of different people , a bunch of different memories , including my own , of taking a little bit of liberty with the subject matter . I basically shot everything with short lenses , which means that you 're very close to the action , but framed it very similarly to the long lens shots which gives you a sense of distance , so I was basically was setting up something that would remind you of something you have n't really quite seen before . ( Music ) And then I 'm going to show you exactly what it is that you were reacting to when you were reacting to it . ( Music ) Tom Hanks : Hello , Houston , this is Odyssey . It 's good to see you again . ( Cheers ) ( Music ) Rob Legato : I pretend they 're clapping for me . ( Laughter ) So now I 'm in a parking lot . And in this particular case , this is the climax of the movie , and , you know , the weight of achieving it was simply take a model , throw it out of a helicopter , and shoot it . ( Laughter ) I do n't know why , but they thought they did . So we were , he 's a hero , he 's an astronaut , and we 're all sort of excited , and , you know , I gave myself the liberty of saying , you know , some of the shots I did did n't really suck that bad . ( `` That 's wrong '' ) ( Laughter ) Okay . ( Laughter ) So what I got from him is , he turned to me and said , `` You would never , ever design a rocket like that . ( Laughter ) And I 'm not going to argue with you . ( Laughter ) I 'm just going to show you some footage . So I showed him this , and this is actual footage that he was on . ( `` That 's wrong too . So , and what happened was , I mean , what I sort of intuned in that is that he remembered it differently . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So he twisted his memory around . Now , Ron Howard ran into Buzz Aldrin , who was not on the movie , so he had no idea that we were faking any of this footage , and he just responded as he would respond , and I 'll run this . Ron Howard : Buzz Aldrin came up to me and said , `` Hey , that launch footage , I saw some shots I 'd never seen before . And he said , `` Huh , that 's pretty good . ( Explosion ) ( `` Sure '' ) ( Laughter ) RL : I think he 's a great American . ( Laughter ) So , `` Titanic '' was , if you do n't know the story , does n't end well . ( Laughter ) Jim Cameron actually photographed the real Titanic . So this is the footage he photographed , and it was pretty moving and pretty awe-inspiring . So I conjured up an effect that I 'm later going to show you what I tried to do , which is kind of the heart of the movie , for me , and so that 's why I wanted to do the movie , that 's why I wanted to create the sort of things I created . And I 'll show you , you know , another thing that I found interesting is what we really were emoting to when you take a look at it . And so , but what you 're emoting to , or what you 're looking at , had the same feeling , the same haunting quality , that Jim 's footage had , so I found it so fascinating that our brains sort of , once you believe something 's real , you transfer everything that you feel about it , this quality you have , and it 's totally artificial . So basically , if there 's two subs in the same shot , I shot it , because where 's the camera coming from ? And when Jim shot it , it was only one sub , because he was photographing from the other , and I do n't remember if I did this or Jim did this . ( Laughter ) Okay . ( Music ) And what I was hoping for is that it just melts in front of you . Gloria Stuart : That was the last time Titanic ever saw daylight . RL : So , what I did is basically I had another screening room experience where I was basically tracking where I was looking , or where we were looking , and of course you 're looking at the two people on the bow of the ship , and then at some point , I 'm changing the periphery of the shot , I 'm changing , it 's becoming the rusted wreck , and then I would run it every day , and then I would find exactly the moment that I stopped looking at them and start noticing the rest of it , and the moment my eye shifted , we just marked it to the frame . Or something like that . ( Laughter ) It was , incidentally , the last time I ever saw daylight . Now , `` Hugo '' was another interesting movie , because the movie itself is about film illusions . So let me show you the scene , and then I basically used the trick that was identified by Sergei Eisenstein , which is , if you have a camera that 's moving with a moving object , what is not moving appears to be moving , and what is moving appears to be stopped , so what you 're actually seeing now is the train is not moving at all , and what is actually moving is the floor . So this is the shot . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) `` And the thing without the wheels , that moves . Precisely . Brings me to the next , and final -- Marty 's not going to see this , is he ? ( Laughter ) This is n't viewed outside of -- ( Laughter ) The next illustration is something that , there 's like all one shot theory . ( Music ) That 's Hugo . So what you 're now going to see is how we actually did it . So I was kind of proud of it , and I went to a friend of mine , and said , `` You know , this is , you know , kind of the best-reviewed shot I 've ever worked on . And he said , `` Because no one knows you had anything to do with it . ( Laughter ) So , all I can say is , thank you , and that 's my presentation for you . ( Applause ) 