My talk today is about something maybe a couple of you have already heard about . It 's called the Arab Spring . Anyone heard of it ? ( Applause ) So in 2011 , power shifted , from the few to the many , from oval offices to central squares , from carefully guarded airwaves to open-source networks . But before Tahrir was a global symbol of liberation , there were representative surveys already giving people a voice in quieter but still powerful ways . I study Muslim societies around the world at Gallup . Since 2001 , we 've interviewed hundreds of thousands of people -- young and old , men and women , educated and illiterate . My talk today draws on this research to reveal why Arabs rose up and what they want now . Now this region 's very diverse , and every country is unique . But those who revolted shared a common set of grievances and have similar demands today . I 'm going to focus a lot of my talk on Egypt . It has nothing to do with the fact that I was born there , of course . But it 's the largest Arab country and it 's also one with a great deal of influence . But I 'm going to end by widening the lens to the entire region to look at the mundane topics of Arab views of religion and politics and how this impacts women , revealing some surprises along the way . So after analyzing mounds of data , what we discovered was this : Unemployment and poverty alone did not lead to the Arab revolts of 2011 . If an act of desperation by a Tunisian fruit vendor sparked these revolutions , it was the difference between what Arabs experienced and what they expected that provided the fuel . To tell you what I mean , consider this trend in Egypt . On paper the country was doing great . In fact , it attracted accolades from multinational organizations because of its economic growth . But under the surface was a very different reality . In 2010 , right before the revolution , even though GDP per capita had been growing at five percent for several years , Egyptians had never felt worse about their lives . Now this is very unusual , because globally we find that , not surprisingly , people feel better as their country gets richer . And that 's because they have better job opportunities and their state offers better social services . But it was exactly the opposite in Egypt . As the country got more well-off , unemployment actually rose and people 's satisfaction with things like housing and education plummeted . But it was n't just anger at economic injustice . It was also people 's deep longing for freedom . Contrary to the clash of civilizations theory , Arabs did n't despise Western liberty , they desired it . As early as 2001 , we asked Arabs , and Muslims in general around the world , what they admired most about the West . Among the most frequent responses was liberty and justice . In their own words to an open-ended question we heard , `` Their political system is transparent and it 's following democracy in its true sense . '' Another said it was `` liberty and freedom and being open-minded with each other . '' Majorities as high as 90 percent and greater in Egypt , Indonesia and Iran told us in 2005 that if they were to write a new constitution for a theoretical new country that they would guarantee freedom of speech as a fundamental right , especially in Egypt . Eighty-eight percent said moving toward greater democracy would help Muslims progress -- the highest percentage of any country we surveyed . But pressed up against these democratic aspirations was a very different day-to-day experience , especially in Egypt . While aspiring to democracy the most , they were the least likely population in the world to say that they had actually voiced their opinion to a public official in the last month -- at only four percent . So while economic development made a few people rich , it left many more worse off . As people felt less and less free , they also felt less and less provided for . So rather than viewing their former regimes as generous if overprotective fathers , they viewed them as essentially prison wardens . So now that Egyptians have ended Mubarak 's 30-year rule , they potentially could be an example for the region . If Egypt is to succeed at building a society based on the rule of law , it could be a model . If , however , the core issues that propelled the revolution are n't addressed , the consequences could be catastrophic -- not just for Egypt , but for the entire region . The signs do n't look good , some have said . Islamists , not the young liberals that sparked the revolution , won the majority in Parliament . The military council has cracked down on civil society and protests and the country 's economy continues to suffer . Evaluating Egypt on this basis alone , however , ignores the real revolution . Because Egyptians are more optimistic than they have been in years , far less divided on religious-secular lines than we would think and poised for the demands of democracy . Whether they support Islamists or liberals , Egyptians ' priorities for this government are identical , and they are jobs , stability and education , not moral policing . But most of all , for the first time in decades , they expect to be active participants , not spectators , in the affairs of their country . I was meeting with a group of newly-elected parliamentarians from Egypt and Tunisia a couple of weeks ago . And what really struck me about them was that they were n't only optimistic , but they kind of struck me as nervous , for lack of a better word . One said to me , `` Our people used to gather in cafes to watch football '' -- or soccer , as we say in America -- `` and now they gather to watch Parliament . '' ( Laughter ) `` They 're really watching us , and we ca n't help but worry that we 're not going to live up to their expectations . And the reason that they 're expecting a lot is because they have a new-found hope for the future . One reason that there 's this optimism is because , contrary to what many people have said , most Egyptians think things really have changed in many ways . ( Applause ) Now I know what some of you are thinking . In the country once known for its passive resignation , where , as bad as things got , only four percent expressed their opinion to a public official , today 90 percent tell us that if there 's a problem in their community , it 's up to them to fix it . And this empowerment also applies to women , whose role in the revolts can not be underestimated . ( Applause ) Now people have raised some real concerns about what the rise of Islamist parties means for women . And here is where we see the greatest gender difference within a country -- on the issue of women 's rights . So the question becomes , What drives men 's support for women 's rights ? What about men 's views of religion and law ? [ Does ] a man 's opinion of the role of religion in politics shape their view of women 's rights ? The answer is no . And the transformation continues . Thank you . ( Applause ) 