My name is Tom , and I 've come here today to come clean about what I do for money . Basically , I use my mouth in strange ways in exchange for cash . ( Laughter ) I usually do this kind of thing in seedy downtown bars and on street corners , so this might n't be the most appropriate setting , but I 'd like to give you guys a bit of a demonstration about what I do . ( Beatboxing ) And now , for my next number , I 'd like to return to the classics . ( Applause ) We 're going to take it back , way back , back into time . ♫ Billie Jean is not my lover ♫ ♫ She 's just a girl who claims that I am the one ♫ ♫ But the kid is not my son ♫ ( Applause ) All right . Wassup . Thank you very much , TEDx . If you guys have n't figured it out already , my name 's Tom Thum , and I 'm a beatboxer , which means all the sounds that you just heard were made entirely using just my voice , and the only thing was my voice . And I 'm very , very stoked — ( Applause ) You guys are just applauding for everything . I 'm very , very stoked to be here today , representing my kinfolk and all those that have n't managed to make a career out of an innate ability for inhuman noisemaking . We start our journey in the central deserts . ( Didgeridoo ) ( Airplane ) India . ( Beatboxing ) ( Sitar ) China . ( Guzheng ) ( Beatboxing ) Germany . ( Beatboxing ) Party , party , yeah . ( Laughter ) And before we reach our final destination , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to share with you some technology that I brought all the way from the thriving metropolis of Brisbane . ( Music ) ( Applause ) I got way too much time on my hands . And last but not least , the one on my right here allows me to loop loop loop loop loop loop loop loop my voice . So with all that in mind , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to take you on a journey to a completely separate part of Earth as I transform the Sydney Opera House into a smoky downtown jazz bar . ( Music ) Ladies and gentlemen , I 'd like to introduce you to a very special friend of mine , one of the greatest double bassists I know . ( Music ) All right , ladies and gentlemen , I 'd like to introduce you to the star of the show , one of the greatest jazz legends of our time . ( Music ) ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) 