There are more Chinese restaurants in this country than McDonald 's , Burger King , Kentucky Fried Chicken and Wendy 's , combined -- 40,000 , actually . Chinese restaurants have played an important role in American history , as a matter of fact . The Cuban missile crisis was resolved in a Chinese restaurant called Yenching Palace in Washington , D.C. , which unfortunately is closed now , and about to be turned into Walgreen 's . And the house that John Wilkes Booth planned the assassination of Abraham Lincoln is actually also now a Chinese restaurant called Wok 'n Roll , on H Street in Washington . ( Laughter ) And it 's not completely gratuitous , because wok and roll -- Chinese food and Japanese foods , so it kind of works out . So , let me present the question to you : If our benchmark for Americanness is apple pie , you should ask yourself , how often do you eat apple pie , versus how often do you eat Chinese food . So , where are they from ? The short answer is , actually , they 're from Japan . So , the interesting question is , how do you go from fortune cookies being something that is Japanese to being something that is Chinese ? Well , the short answer is , we locked up all the Japanese during World War II , including those that made fortune cookies , so that 's the time when the Chinese moved in , kind of saw a market opportunity and took over . Another one of my favorite dishes : General Tso 's Chicken -- which , by the way , in the US Naval Academy is called Admiral Tso 's Chicken . So , another dish . I guarantee you , General Tso never saw a stalk of broccoli in his life -- and indeed , that actually was a picture of General Tso . But the granddaddy of all the Chinese-American dishes we probably ought to talk about is chop suey , which was introduced around the turn of the 20th century . So , why -- why and where -- did chop suey come from ? Let 's go back to mid-1800s when the Chinese first came to America . And another way that you saw , sort of , this sort of , this antipathy towards the Chinese is through documents like this . Now , who came up with the idea of chop suey ? There 's a lot of different mysteries , a lot of different legends , but of the ones that I 've found that I thought was most interesting is this article from 1904 . So the thing is , this kind of idea of Chinese-American food does n't exist only in America . So , let 's take a step back , and kind of , understand what is to be appreciated in America . They looked all across the country , and discovered it could n't necessarily be fraud , because it happened , you know , in different states , across different computer systems . Yeah . So , a good sort of contrast is Chicken McNuggets . In contrast , we have General Tso 's Chicken , which actually started in New York City in the early 1970s , as I was also starting in the university in New York City in the early 1970s , so ... And this logo ! So me , General Tso 's Chicken and this logo are all karmacally related . So , what I like to say , you know , this being sort of Bay Area , Silicon Valley -- is that we think of McDonald 's as sort of the Microsoft of the dining experiences . So , the thing is , our historical lore , because of the way we like narratives , are full of vast characters such as , you know , Howard Schultz of Starbucks and Ray Kroc with McDonald 's and Asa Chandler with Coca-Cola . 