The most romantic thing to ever happen to me online started out the way most things do : without me , and not online . On December 10 , 1896 , the man on the medal , Alfred Nobel , died . One hundred years later , exactly , actually , December 10 , 1996 , this charming lady , Wislawa Szymborska , won the Nobel Prize for literature . She 's a Polish poet . She 's a big deal , obviously , but back in '96 , I thought I had never heard of her , and when I checked out her work , I found this sweet little poem , `` Four in the Morning . '' `` The hour from night to day . The hour from side to side . The hour for those past thirty ... '' And it goes on , but as soon as I read this poem , I fell for it hard , so hard , I suspected we must have met somewhere before . Had I shared an elevator ride with this poem ? Did I flirt with this poem in a coffee shop somewhere ? I could not place it , and it bugged me , and then in the coming week or two , I would just be watching an old movie , and this would happen . ( Video ) Groucho Marx : Charlie , you should have come to the first party . We did n't get home till around four in the morning . Rives : My roommates would have the TV on , and this would happen . ( Music : Seinfeld theme ) ( Video ) George Costanza : Oh boy , I was up til four in the morning watching that Omen trilogy . Rives : I would be listening to music , and this would happen . ( Video ) Elton John : ♪ It 's four o'clock in the morning , damn it . ♪ Rives : So you can see what was going on , right ? Obviously , the demigods of coincidence were just messing with me . Some people get a number stuck in their head , you may recognize a certain name or a tune , some people get nothing , but four in the morning was in me now , but mildly , like a groin injury . I always assumed it would just go away on its own eventually , and I never talked about it with anybody , but it did not , and I totally did . In 2007 , I was invited to speak at TED for the second time , and since I was still an authority on nothing , I thought , what if I made a multimedia presentation on a topic so niche it is actually inconsequential or actually cockamamie . So my talk had some of my four in the morning examples , but it also had examples from my fellow TED speakers that year . I found four in the morning in a novel by Isabel Allende . I found a really great one in the autobiography of Bill Clinton . I found a couple in the work of Matt Groening , although Matt Groening told me later that he could not make my talk because it was a morning session and I gather that he is not an early riser . However , had Matt been there , he would have seen this mock conspiracy theory that was un-freaking-canny for me to assemble . It was totally contrived just for that room , just for that moment . That 's how we did it in the pre-TED.com days . It was fun . That was pretty much it . When I got home , though , the emails started coming in from people who had seen the talk live , beginning with , and this is still my favorite , `` Here 's another one for your collection : 'It 's the friends you can call up at 4 a.m. that matter . ' '' The sentiment is Marlene Dietrich . The email itself was from another very sexy European type , TED Curator Chris Anderson . ( Laughter ) Chris found this quote on a coffee cup or something , and I 'm thinking , this man is the Typhoid Mary of ideas worth spreading , and I have infected him . I was not surprised at the TEDster and New Yorker magazine overlap . I was surprised at the TEDster/ '' Rugrats '' overlap . ( Video ) Didi Pickles : It 's four o'clock in the morning . Stu Pickles : Because I 've lost control of my life . ( Laughter ) Rives : And then there was the lone TEDster who was disgruntled I had overlooked what he considers to be a classic . ( Video ) Roy Neary : Get up , get up ! I 'm not kidding . Roy : No , it 's not an accident . Ronnie : Not at four o'clock in the morning . Rives : So that 's `` Close Encounters , '' and the main character is all worked up because aliens , momentously , have chosen to show themselves to earthlings at four in the morning , which does make that a very solid example . Just when things were getting pretty interesting , things got really interesting . ( Video ) Wilma Flintstone : Like how early ? Fred Flintstone : Like at 4 a.m. , that 's how early . Rives : And the flip side of the timeline , this is from the 31st century . ( Video ) : Announcer : The time is 4 a.m. ( Laughter ) Rives : It shows the spectrum . ( Movie montage of `` It 's 4 a.m . ( Laughter ) Rives : So somewhere along the line , I realized I have a hobby I did n't know I wanted , and it is crowdsourced . First of all , you are not getting clips like that about four in the afternoon . ( Music ) ( 4 a.m. alarm clock montage ) ( Video ) Newcaster : Top of the hour . Rives : Exactly . Just imagine that your friends and your family have heard that you collect , say , stuffed polar bears , and they send them to you . ( Video ) Ron Jeremy : I was born in Flushing , Queens on March , 12 , 1953 , at four o'clock in the morning . Rives : Of course he was . So last October , in gentleman scholar tradition , I put the entire collection online as `` Museum of Four in the Morning . ( Video ) Billy Collins : No wonder you rise in the middle of the night to look up the date of a famous battle in a book on war . Rives : So the first hour of this project was satisfying . Less than a week later , though , I received a little bit of grace . The name was a pseudonym , actually , or a pseudo-pseudonym . L.D . But her mix tape did not get away . I did this again last October . `` PG '' is Slavic literature . ( Music : Paul Simon , `` Peace Like a River '' ) ( Video ) Paul Simon : ♪ Oh , four in the morning ♪ ♪ I woke up from out of my dream ♪ Rives : Thank you . 