So if I told you that this was the face of pure joy , would you call me crazy ? I would n't blame you , because every time I look at this Arctic selfie , I shiver just a little bit . I want to tell you a little bit about this photograph . I was swimming around in the Lofoten Islands in Norway , just inside the Arctic Circle , and the water was hovering right at freezing . The air ? A brisk -10 with windchill , and I could literally feel the blood trying to leave my hands , feet and face , and rush to protect my vital organs . It was the coldest I 've ever been . But even with swollen lips , sunken eyes , and cheeks flushed red , I have found that this place right here is somewhere I can find great joy . Now , when it comes to pain , psychologist Brock Bastian probably said it best when he wrote , `` Pain is a kind of shortcut to mindfulness . It makes us suddenly aware of everything in the environment . It brutally draws us in to a virtual sensory awareness of the world much like meditation . '' If shivering is a form of meditation , then I would consider myself a monk . ( Laughter ) Now , before we get into the why would anyone ever want to surf in freezing cold water ? I would love to give you a little perspective on what a day in my life can look like . ( Music ) ( Video ) Man : I mean , I know we were hoping for good waves , but I do n't think anybody thought that was going to happen . ( Music ) ( Applause ) Chris Burkard : So , surf photographer , right ? I do n't even know if it 's a real job title , to be honest . I began craving wild , open spaces , and so I set out to find the places others had written off as too cold , too remote , and too dangerous to surf , and that challenge intrigued me . So in my search to break up this monotony , I realized something : There 's only about a third of the Earth 's oceans that are warm , and it 's really just that thin band around the equator . I was blown away by the natural beauty of the landscape , but most importantly , I could n't believe we were finding perfect waves in such a remote and rugged part of the world . I was hooked . There was this one particularly bumpy boat ride up the coast of Vancouver Island to this kind of remote surf spot , where we ended up watching helplessly from the water as bears ravaged our camp site . Now , it was n't until I traveled to Norway -- ( Laughter ) -- that I really learned to appreciate the cold . Now , I knew this place had a reputation for sinking ships and grounding planes , and while I was out there floating , I started to get a little bit nervous . Now , it was this trip and probably that exact experience where I really began to feel like every photograph was precious , because all of a sudden in that moment , it was something I was forced to earn . So I look back at this photograph . Thank you so much . ( Applause ) 