I wan na start today -- here 's my thing . Hold on . There I go . Hey . I wan na start today -- talk about the structure of a polypeptide . ( Laughter ) I get a lot of people asking me , in terms of `` Lost , '' you know , `` What the hell 's that island ? '' You know , it 's usually followed by , `` No , seriously , what the hell is that island ? '' ( Laughter ) Why so many mysteries ? What is it about mystery that I seem to be drawn to ? And I was thinking about this , what to talk about at TED . I was trying to think , what do I talk about ? It 's a good question . And last night in the hotel , I took apart the Kleenex box . And you know , and my grandmother was the greatest . Anyway , so one of the things that I bought at the magic store was this : Tannen 's Mystery Magic Box . And I realized that I have n't opened it because it represents something important -- to me . And so I started thinking about `` Lost , '' and the stuff that we do , and I realized , oh my God , mystery boxes are everywhere in what I do ! In how -- in the creation of `` Lost , '' Damon Lindelof and I , who created the show with me , we were basically tasked with creating this series that we had very little time to do . Claire : Help ! Please help me ! Help me ! Help me ! Jack : Get him out of here ! Get him away from the engine ! Get him out of here ! C : I 'm having contractions ! J : How many months pregnant are you ? C : I 'm only eight months . J : And how far apart are they coming ? C : I do n't know . Man : Hey ! Hey ! Hey , get away from -- JJA : Now , 10 years ago , if we wanted to do that , we 'd have to kill a stuntman . I used to have the `` Ordinary People '' script that I 'd flip through . So there 's that . So there 's this thing with mystery boxes that I started feeling compelled . And then , finally , there 's this idea -- stretching the sort of paradigm a little bit -- but the idea of the mystery box . When you look at a movie like `` Jaws , '' the scene that you expect -- we have the screen ? These are the kind of , you know , scenes that you remember and expect from `` Jaws . Father : C'mere . Son : Why ? Father : 'Cause I need it . JJA : C'mon . Then the distribution . So to me , whether it 's that , whether it 's a TV , an iPod , computer , cell phone -- it 's funny , I 'm an -- as I said , Apple fanatic -- and one day , about a year or so ago , I was signing on online in the morning to watch Steve Jobs ' keynote , 'cause I always do . I was gon na show you a couple of other things I 'm gon na skip through . The most incredible sort of mystery , I think , is now the question of what comes next . I used to say in classes and lectures and stuff , to someone who wants to write , `` Go ! Write ! Do your thing . When I did `` Mission : Impossible III , '' we had amazing visual effects stuff . Okay , obviously I have an obsession with big crazy explosions . Bad Guy : Good morning . JJA : OK , now . So we took his hand and we painted it to look a little bit more like Eddie 's . 