So a chip , a poet and a boy . It 's just about 20 years ago , June 1994 , when Intel announced that there was a flaw at the core of their Pentium chip . Deep in the code of the SRT algorithm to calculate intermediate quotients necessary for iterative floating points of divisions -- I do n't know what that means , but it 's what it says on Wikipedia — there was a flaw and an error that meant that there was a certain probability that the result of the calculation would be an error , and the probability was one out of every 360 billion calculations . So Intel said your average spreadsheet would be flawed once every 27,000 years . They did n't think it was significant , but there was an outrage in the community . The community , the techies , said , this flaw has to be addressed . They were not going to stand by quietly as Intel gave them these chips . So there was a revolution across the world . People marched to demand -- okay , not really exactly like that — but they rose up and they demanded that Intel fix the flaw . And Intel set aside 475 million dollars to fund the replacement of millions of chips to fix the flaw . So billions of dollars in our society was spent to address a problem which would come once out of every 360 billion calculations . Number two , a poet . This is Martin Niemöller . You 're familiar with his poetry . Around the height of the Nazi period , he started repeating the verse , `` First they came for the communists , and I did nothing , did not speak out because I was not a communist . Then they came for the socialists . Then they came for the trade unions . Then they came for the Jews . And then they came for me . But there was no one left to speak for me . '' Now , Niemöller is offering a certain kind of insight . This is an insight at the core of intelligence . We could call it cluefulness . It 's a certain kind of test : Can you recognize an underlying threat and respond ? Can you save yourself or save your kind ? Turns out ants are pretty good at this . Cows , not so much . So can you see the pattern ? Can you see a pattern and then recognize and do something about it ? Number two . Number three , a boy . This is my friend Aaron Swartz . He 's Tim 's friend . He 's friends of many of you in this audience , and seven years ago , Aaron came to me with a question . It was just before I was going to give my first TED Talk . I was so proud . I was telling him about my talk , `` Laws that choke creativity . '' And Aaron looked at me and was a little impatient , and he said , `` So how are you ever going to solve the problems you 're talking about ? Copyright policy , Internet policy , how are you ever going to address those problems so long as there 's this fundamental corruption in the way our government works ? '' So I was a little put off by this . He was n't sharing in my celebration . And I said to him , `` You know , Aaron , it 's not my field , not my field . '' He said , `` You mean as an academic , it 's not your field ? '' I said , `` Yeah , as an academic , it 's not my field . '' He said , `` What about as a citizen ? As a citizen . '' Now , this is the way Aaron was . He did n't tell . He asked questions . But his questions spoke as clearly as my four-year-old 's hug . He was saying to me , `` You 've got to get a clue . You have got to get a clue , because there is a flaw at the core of the operating system of this democracy , and it 's not a flaw every one out of 360 billion times our democracy tries to make a decision . It is every time , every single important issue . We 've got to end the bovinity of this political society . We 've got to adopt , it turns out , the word is fourmi-formatic attitude -- that 's what the Internet tells me the word is -- the ant 's appreciative attitude that gets us to recognize this flaw , save our kind and save our demos . Now if you know Aaron Swartz , you know that we lost him just over a year ago . It was about six weeks before I gave my TED Talk , and I was so grateful to Chris that he asked me to give this TED Talk , not because I had the chance to talk to you , although that was great , but because it pulled me out of an extraordinary depression . I could n't begin to describe the sadness . Because I had to focus . I had to focus on , what was I going to say to you ? It saved me . But after the buzz , the excitement , the power that comes from this community , I began to yearn for a less sterile , less academic way to address these issues , the issues that I was talking about . We 'd begun to focus on New Hampshire as a target for this political movement , because the primary in New Hampshire is so incredibly important . It was a group called the New Hampshire Rebellion that was beginning to talk about , how would we make this issue of this corruption central in 2016 ? But it was another soul that caught my imagination , a woman named Doris Haddock , aka Granny D. On January 1 , 1999 , 15 years ago , at the age of 88 , Granny D started a walk . She started in Los Angeles and began to walk to Washington , D.C. with a single sign on her chest that said , `` campaign finance reform . '' Eighteen months later , at the age of 90 , she arrived in Washington with hundreds following her , including many congressmen who had gotten in a car and driven out about a mile outside of the city to walk in with her . ( Laughter ) Now , I do n't have 13 months to walk across the country . So on January 11 , the anniversary of Aaron 's death , we began a walk that ended on January 24th , the day that Granny D was born . What 's next ? Well , we started with this march with 200 people , and next year , there will be 1,000 on different routes that march in the month of January and meet in Concord to celebrate this cause , and then in 2016 , before the primary , there will be 10,000 who march across that state , meeting in Concord to celebrate this cause . So last night , we heard about wishes . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 