I was only four years old when I saw my mother load a washing machine for the very first time in her life . That was a great day for my mother . My mother and father had been saving money for years to be able to buy that machine , and the first day it was going to be used , even Grandma was invited to see the machine . And Grandma was even more excited . Throughout her life she had been heating water with firewood , and she had hand washed laundry for seven children . And now she was going to watch electricity do that work . My mother carefully opened the door , and she loaded the laundry into the machine , like this . And then , when she closed the door , Grandma said , `` No , no , no , no . Let me , let me push the button . '' And Grandma pushed the button , and she said , `` Oh , fantastic ! I want to see this ! Give me a chair ! Give me a chair ! I want to see it , '' and she sat down in front of the machine , and she watched the entire washing program . She was mesmerized . To my grandmother , the washing machine was a miracle . Today , in Sweden and other rich countries , people are using so many different machines . Look , the homes are full of machines . I ca n't even name them all . And they also , when they want to travel , they use flying machines that can take them to remote destinations . And yet , in the world , there are so many people who still heat the water on fire , and they cook their food on fire . Sometimes they do n't even have enough food , and they live below the poverty line . There are two billion fellow human beings who live on less than two dollars a day . And the richest people over there -- there 's one billion people -- and they live above what I call the `` air line , '' because they spend more than $ 80 a day on their consumption . But this is just one , two , three billion people , and obviously there are seven billion people in the world , so there must be one , two , three , four billion people more who live in between the poverty and the air line . They have electricity , but the question is , how many have washing machines ? I 've done the scrutiny of market data , and I 've found that , indeed , the washing machine has penetrated below the air line , and today there 's an additional one billion people out there who live above the `` wash line . '' ( Laughter ) And they consume more than $ 40 per day . And the remaining five billion , how do they wash ? Or , to be more precise , how do most of the women in the world wash ? Because it remains hard work for women to wash . But when I lecture to environmentally-concerned students , they tell me , `` No , everybody in the world can not have cars and washing machines . ( Laughter ) So how come [ this is ] something that everyone uses and they think others will not stop it ? What is special with this ? I had to do an analysis about the energy used in the world . But the main concern for the environmentally-interested students -- and they are right -- is about the future . What will happen is economic growth . This is what we hope may happen . And what 's the magic with them ? My mother explained the magic with this machine the very , very first day . And what we said , my mother and me , `` Thank you industrialization . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 