Chris Anderson asked me if I could put the last 25 years of anti-poverty campaigning into 10 minutes for TED . That 's an Englishman asking an Irishman to be succinct . ( Laughter ) I said , `` Chris , that would take a miracle . He said , `` Bono , would n't that be a good use of your messianic complex ? '' So , yeah . And the Pharaoh replies , `` Oh , no . And they say , `` No , no , that 's what it says here in our holy book . Cut to our century , same country , same pyramids , another people spreading the same idea of equality with a different book . So I thought , forget the rock opera , forget the bombast , my usual tricks . Because what the facts are telling us is that the long , slow journey , humanity 's long , slow journey of equality , is actually speeding up . Let 's just stop for a second , actually , and think about that . Now , the rate is still too high -- still too many people unnecessarily losing their lives . Now I know that some of you think this progress is all in Asia or Latin America or model countries like Brazil -- and who does n't love a Brazilian model ? -- but look at sub-Saharan Africa . There are all kinds of benefits to this . And 2028 , 2030 ? It 's just around the corner . So why are n't we jumping up and down about this ? Well , the opportunity is real , but so is the jeopardy . So inertia versus momentum . Right now today , in Oslo as it happens , oil companies are fighting to keep secret their payments to governments for extracting oil in developing countries . And right now , we know that the biggest disease of all is not a disease . So let me tell you about the U-report , which I 'm really excited about . Look , once you have these tools , you ca n't not use them . It 's transformational . So I 'm here to -- I guess we 're here to try and infect you with this virtuous , data-based virus , the one we call factivism . I 'm thinking of Wael Ghonim , though . `` We are going to win because we do n't understand politics . Wael is right . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you so much . 