Sydney . I had been waiting my whole life to get to Sydney . I got to the airport , to the hotel , checked in , and , sitting there in the lobby , was a brochure for the Sydney Festival . I thumbed through it , and I came across a show called `` Minto : Live . '' The description read : `` The suburban streets of Minto become the stage for performances created by international artists in collaboration with the people of Minto . '' What was this place called Minto ? Sydney , as I would learn , is a city of suburbs , and Minto lies southwest , about an hour away . I have to say , it was n't exactly what I had in mind for my first day down under . I mean , I 'd thought about the Harbour Bridge or Bondi Beach , but Minto ? But still , I 'm a producer , and the lure of a site-specific theater project was more than I could resist . ( Laughter ) So , off I went into Friday afternoon traffic , and I 'll never forget what I saw when I got there . This Australian-Indian girl , she came out and started to dance on her front lawn , and her father peered out the window to see what all the noise and commotion was about , and he soon joined her . And as I walked through the neighborhood , I was amazed and I was moved by the incredible sense of ownership this community clearly felt about this event . The Sydney Festival which produced `` Minto : Live '' I think represents a new kind of 21st-century arts festival . To understand this , I think it kind of makes sense to look where we 've come from . But as the decades passed , these festivals , they really became the establishment , and as the culture and capital accelerated , the Internet brought us all together , high and low kind of disappeared , a new kind of festival emerged . The old festivals , they continued to thrive , but from Brighton to Rio to Perth , something new was emerging , and these festivals were really different . So , the new festival , it asks the audience to play an essential role in shaping the performance . Artists are explorers . An artist , I think , can really show us people that we might overlook in our lives . So , the dialogue with the local and the global , the audience as participant and player and protagonist , the innovative use of site , all of these things come to play in the amazing work of the fantastic French company Royal de Luxe . For `` The Sultan 's Elephant , '' Royal de Luxe came to central London and brought it to a standstill with their story of a giant little girl and her friend , a time-traveling elephant . We can talk about the economic impacts of these festivals on their cities , but I 'm much [ more ] interested in many more things , like how a festival helps a city to express itself , how it lets it come into its own . Case in point : When `` The Sultan 's Elephant '' came to London just nine months after 7/7 , a Londoner wrote , `` For the first time since the London bombings , my daughter called up with that sparkle back in her voice . 