I want to talk about social innovation and social entrepreneurship . I happen to have triplets . They 're little . They 're five years old . Sometimes I tell people I have triplets . They say , `` Really ? How many ? '' ( Laughter ) Here 's a picture of the kids -- that 's Sage , and Annalisa and Rider . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) The real social innovation I want to talk about involves charity . But before I do that , I want to ask if we even believe that the nonprofit sector has any serious role to play in changing the world . I sit on the board of a center for the developmentally disabled , and these people want laughter and compassion and they want love . But it does n't seem to be working . And the answer is , these social problems are massive in scale , our organizations are tiny up against them , and we have a belief system that keeps them tiny . So in the for-profit sector , the more value you produce , the more money you can make . ( Applause ) And we think of this as our system of ethics , but what we do n't realize is that this system has a powerful side effect , which is : It gives a really stark , mutually exclusive choice between doing very well for yourself and your family or doing good for the world , to the brightest minds coming out of our best universities , and sends tens of thousands of people who could make a huge difference in the nonprofit sector , marching every year directly into the for-profit sector because they 're not willing to make that kind of lifelong economic sacrifice . Some people say , `` Well , that 's just because those MBA types are greedy . ( Laughter ) and have a lifetime of this kind of power and influence and popular praise still ahead of them . The second area of discrimination is advertising and marketing . In the 1990s , my company created the long-distance AIDSRide bicycle journeys , and the 60 mile-long breast cancer three-day walks , and over the course of nine years , we had 182,000 ordinary heroes participate , and they raised a total of 581 million dollars . ( Applause ) They raised more money more quickly for these causes than any events in history , all based on the idea that people are weary of being asked to do the least they can possibly do . Charitable giving has remained stuck in the U.S. , at two percent of GDP , ever since we started measuring it in the 1970s . The third area of discrimination is the taking of risk in pursuit of new ideas for generating revenue . The fourth area is time . The last area is profit itself . Well , you put those five things together -- you ca n't use money to lure talent away from the for-profit sector ; you ca n't advertise on anywhere near the scale the for-profit sector does for new customers ; you ca n't take the kinds of risks in pursuit of those customers that the for-profit sector takes ; you do n't have the same amount of time to find them as the for-profit sector ; and you do n't have a stock market with which to fund any of this , even if you could do it in the first place -- and you 've just put the nonprofit sector at an extreme disadvantage to the for-profit sector , on every level . So why do we think this way ? Well , like most fanatical dogma in America , these ideas come from old Puritan beliefs . Well , charity became their answer . Now , this ideology gets policed by this one very dangerous question , which is , `` What percentage of my donation goes to the cause versus overhead ? '' There are a lot of problems with this question . So we 've all been taught that charities should spend as little as possible on overhead things like fundraising under the theory that , well , the less money you spend on fundraising , the more money there is available for the cause . I 'll give you two examples . Why ? Well , the short story is , our sponsors split on us . This is what happens when we confuse morality with frugality . Here 's how all of this impacts the big picture . Our generation does not want its epitaph to read , `` We kept charity overhead low . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) We want it to read that we changed the world , and that part of the way we did that was by changing the way we think about these things . So the next time you 're looking at a charity , do n't ask about the rate of their overhead . If we can have that kind of generosity -- a generosity of thought -- then the non-profit sector can play a massive role in changing the world for all those citizens most desperately in need of it to change . Annalisa Smith-Pallotta : That would be Sage Smith-Pallotta : a real social Rider Smith-Pallotta : innovation . Dan Pallotta : Thank you very much . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) 