When I was a young officer , they told me to follow my instincts , to go with my gut , and what I 've learned is that often our instincts are wrong . In the summer of 2010 , there was a massive leak of classified documents that came out of the Pentagon . It shocked the world , it shook up the American government , and it made people ask a lot of questions , because the sheer amount of information that was let out , and the potential impacts , were significant . And one of the first questions we asked ourselves was why would a young soldier have access to that much information ? Why would we let sensitive things be with a relatively young person ? In the summer of 2003 , I was assigned to command a special operations task force , and that task force was spread across the Mideast to fight al Qaeda . Our main effort was inside Iraq , and our specified mission was to defeat al Qaeda in Iraq . For almost five years I stayed there , and we focused on fighting a war that was unconventional and it was difficult and it was bloody and it often claimed its highest price among innocent people . We did everything we could to stop al Qaeda and the foreign fighters that came in as suicide bombers and as accelerants to the violence . We honed our combat skills , we developed new equipment , we parachuted , we helicoptered , we took small boats , we drove , and we walked to objectives night after night to stop the killing that this network was putting forward . We bled , we died , and we killed to stop that organization from the violence that they were putting largely against the Iraqi people . Now , we did what we knew , how we had grown up , and one of the things that we knew , that was in our DNA , was secrecy . It was security . It was protecting information . It was the idea that information was the lifeblood and it was what would protect and keep people safe . And we had a sense that , as we operated within our organizations , it was important to keep information in the silos within the organizations , particularly only give information to people had a demonstrated need to know . But the question often came , who needed to know ? Who needed , who had to have the information so that they could do the important parts of the job that you needed ? And in a tightly coupled world , that 's very hard to predict . It 's very hard to know who needs to have information and who does n't . I used to deal with intelligence agencies , and I 'd complain that they were n't sharing enough intelligence , and with a straight face , they 'd look at me and they 'd say , `` What are n't you getting ? '' ( Laughter ) I said , `` If I knew that , we would n't have a problem . But what we found is we had to change . We started by doing things , by building , not working in offices , knocking down walls , working in things we called situation awareness rooms , and in the summer of 2007 , something happened which demonstrated this . So we did , and a lot of people got upset about that , but as we passed that information around , suddenly you find that information is only of value if you give it to people who have the ability to do something with it . And I want everybody to take a deep breath and let it out , because in your life , there 's going to be information that leaks out you 're not going to like . Thank you . ( Applause ) Helen Walters : So I do n't know if you were here this morning , if you were able to catch Rick Ledgett , the deputy director of the NSA who was responding to Edward Snowden 's talk earlier this week . Stanley McChrystal : I think that Rick said something very important . 