When I was 14 years old , I was interested in science -- fascinated by it , excited to learn about it . And I had a high school science teacher who would say to the class , `` The girls do n't have to listen to this . '' Encouraging , yes . ( Laughter ) I chose not to listen -- but to that statement alone . So let me take you to the Andes mountains in Chile , 500 kilometers , 300 miles northeast of Santiago . And our ancestors , for as long as there 's been recorded history , have looked at the night sky and pondered the nature of our existence . It 's no exaggeration to say that the Southern Hemisphere is going to be the future of astronomy for the 21st century . For the last decade , I 've been leading a group -- a consortium -- international group , to build what will be , when it 's finished , the largest optical telescope in existence . The Giant Magellan Telescope will have 10 times the resolution of the Hubble Space Telescope . Now , for thousands of years , we have been studying the cosmos , we 've been wondering about our place in the universe . So we 're looking now at the deepest image of the cosmos that 's ever been taken . So , we 've learned in the last century that there are exotic objects in the universe -- black holes . ( Laughter ) You got it . ( Laughter ) So the way we infer the presence of dark matter -- we ca n't see it -- but there 's an unmistakable tug , due to gravity . What I do myself is to measure the expansion of the universe , and one of the projects that I carried out in the 1990s used the Hubble Space Telescope to measure how fast the universe is expanding . And one of the really surprising results in the last 20 years has the been the discovery of other planets going around other stars . So we know there 's at least one planet , our own Earth , in which there is life . So , what is the GMT project ? It 's an international project . ( Applause ) It also includes a number of institutions across the United States , including Harvard University , the Smithsonian and the Carnegie Institutions , and the Universities of Arizona , Chicago , Texas-Austin and Texas A & amp ; M University . So , the making of the mirrors in this telescope is also fascinating in its own right . ( Laughter ) That 's one five-thousandths of the width of one of my hairs , over this entire 27 feet . So , what does that precision buy us ? So the GMT , if you can imagine -- if I were to hold up a coin , which I just happen to have , and I look at the face of that coin , I can see from here the writing on the coin ; I can see the face on that coin . ( Applause ) If an astronaut went up to the Moon , a quarter of a million miles away , and lit a candle -- a single candle -- then we would be able to detect it , using the GMT . This is a simulated image of a cluster in a nearby galaxy . So , where are we ? We have now leveled the top of the mountaintop in Chile . So we 're now poised to look back at the distant universe , the cosmic dawn . But for me , one of the most exciting things about building the GMT is the opportunity to actually discover something that we do n't know about -- that we ca n't even imagine at this point , something completely new . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) Bruno Giussani : Thank you , Wendy . Wendy Freedman : In terms of the science , they 're very complementary . BG : Wendy , thank you very much for coming to TEDGlobal . WF : Thank you . ( Applause ) 