Good morning . When I was a little boy , I had an experience that changed my life , and is in fact why I 'm here today . That one moment profoundly affected how I think about art , design and engineering . As background , I was fortunate enough to grow up in a family of loving and talented artists in one of the world 's great cities . My dad , John Ferren , who died when I was 15 , was an artist by both passion and profession , as is my mom , Rae . He was one of the New York School abstract expressionists who , together with his contemporaries , invented American modern art , and contributed to moving the American zeitgeist towards modernism in the 20th century . Is n't it remarkable that , after thousands of years of people doing mostly representational art , that modern art , comparatively speaking , is about 15 minutes old , yet now pervasive . As with many other important innovations , those radical ideas required no new technology , just fresh thinking and a willingness to experiment , plus resiliency in the face of near-universal criticism and rejection . In our home , art was everywhere . It was like oxygen , around us and necessary for life . As I watched him paint , Dad taught me that art was not about being decorative , but was a different way of communicating ideas , and in fact one that could bridge the worlds of knowledge and insight . Given this rich artistic environment , you 'd assume that I would have been compelled to go into the family business , but no . I followed the path of most kids who are genetically programmed to make their parents crazy . I had no interest in becoming an artist , certainly not a painter . What I did love was electronics and machines -- taking them apart , building new ones , and making them work . Fortunately , my family also had engineers in it , and with my parents , these were my first role models . What they all had in common was they worked very , very hard . My grandpa owned and operated a sheet metal kitchen cabinet factory in Brooklyn . On weekends , we would go together to Cortlandt Street , which was New York City 's radio row . There we would explore massive piles of surplus electronics , and for a few bucks bring home treasures like Norden bombsights and parts from the first IBM tube-based computers . I found these objects both useful and fascinating . I learned about engineering and how things worked , not at school but by taking apart and studying these fabulously complex devices . I did this for hours every day , apparently avoiding electrocution . Life was good . However , every summer , sadly , the machines got left behind while my parents and I traveled overseas to experience history , art and design . We visited the great museums and historic buildings of both Europe and the Middle East , but to encourage my growing interest in science and technology , they would simply drop me off in places like the London Science Museum , where I would wander endlessly for hours by myself studying the history of science and technology . Then , when I was about nine years old , we went to Rome . On one particularly hot summer day , we visited a drum-shaped building that from the outside was not particularly interesting . My dad said it was called the Pantheon , a temple for all of the gods . It did n't look all that special from the outside , as I said , but when we walked inside , I was immediately struck by three things : First of all , it was pleasantly cool despite the oppressive heat outside . It was very dark , the only source of light being an big open hole in the roof . Dad explained that this was n't a big open hole , but it was called the oculus , an eye to the heavens . And there was something about this place , I did n't know why , that just felt special . As we walked to the center of the room , I looked up at the heavens through the oculus . This was the first church that I 'd been to that provided an unrestricted view between God and man . But I wondered , what about when it rained ? Dad may have called this an oculus , but it was , in fact , a big hole in the roof . I looked down and saw floor drains had been cut into the stone floor . As I became more accustomed to the dark , I was able to make out details of the floor and the surrounding walls . No big deal here , just the same statuary stuff that we 'd seen all over Rome . In fact , it looked like the Appian Way marble salesman showed up with his sample book , showed it to Hadrian , and Hadrian said , `` We 'll take all of it . '' ( Laughter ) But the ceiling was amazing . That moment changed my life , and I can remember it as if it were yesterday . For example , here are some of the Pantheon 's miracles . Largely because of that visit , I came to understand that , contrary to what I was being told in school , the worlds of art and design were not , in fact , incompatible with science and engineering . So then how do these projects of unprecedented creative vision and technical complexity like the Pantheon actually happen ? Someone themselves , perhaps Hadrian , needed a brilliant creative vision . Enough ancient history . So what came after the moon ? One is tempted to say that today 's pantheon is the Internet , but I actually think that 's quite wrong , or at least it 's only part of the story . So what 's next ? What imminent advance will be the equivalent of the Pantheon ? Thinking about this , I rejected many very plausible and dramatic breakthroughs to come , such as curing cancer . So what is next ? Perhaps counterintuitively , I 'm guessing it 's a visionary idea from the late 1930s that 's been revived every decade since : autonomous vehicles . But why now ? Why do we think this is ready ? Because over the last 30 years , people from outside the automotive industry have spent countless billions creating the needed miracles , but for entirely different purposes . Five miracles , mostly delivered , and now you just need a clear vision of a better world filled with autonomous vehicles with seductively beautiful and new functional designs plus a lot of money and hard work to bring it home . In conclusion , I 've come to believe that the ingredients for the next Pantheons are all around us , just waiting for visionary people with the broad knowledge , multidisciplinary skills , and intense passion to harness them to make their dreams a reality . But a cautionary note : We also need to periodically pry them away from their modern miracles , the computers , phones , tablets , game machines and TVs , take them out into the sunlight so they can experience both the natural and design wonders of our world , our planet and our civilization . Someday , if you get the chance , perhaps you can take your kids to the actual Pantheon , as we will our daughter Kira , to experience firsthand the power of that astonishing design , which on one otherwise unremarkable day in Rome , reached 2,000 years into the future to set the course for my life . Thank you . ( Applause ) 