So , people want a lot of things out of life , but I think , more than anything else , they want happiness . Aristotle called happiness `` the chief good , '' the end towards which all other things aim . According to this view , the reason we want a big house or a nice car or a good job is n't that these things are intrinsically valuable . It 's that we expect them to bring us happiness . Now in the last 50 years , we Americans have gotten a lot of the things that we want . We 're richer . We live longer . We have access to technology that would have seemed like science fiction just a few years ago . The paradox of happiness is that even though the objective conditions of our lives have improved dramatically , we have n't actually gotten any happier . Maybe because these conventional notions of progress have n't delivered big benefits in terms of happiness , there 's been an increased interest in recent years in happiness itself . People have been debating the causes of happiness for a really long time , in fact for thousands of years , but it seems like many of those debates remain unresolved . Well , as with many other domains in life , I think the scientific method has the potential to answer this question . In fact , in the last few years , there 's been an explosion in research on happiness . For example , we 've learned a lot about its demographics , how things like income and education , gender and marriage relate to it . But one of the puzzles this has revealed is that factors like these do n't seem to have a particularly strong effect . Yes , it 's better to make more money rather than less , or to graduate from college instead of dropping out , but the differences in happiness tend to be small . Which leaves the question , what are the big causes of happiness ? I think that 's a question we have n't really answered yet , but I think something that has the potential to be an answer is that maybe happiness has an awful lot to do with the contents of our moment-to-moment experiences . It certainly seems that we 're going about our lives , that what we 're doing , who we 're with , what we 're thinking about , have a big influence on our happiness , and yet these are the very factors that have been very difficult , in fact almost impossible , for scientists to study . A few years ago , I came up with a way to study people 's happiness moment to moment as they 're going about their daily lives on a massive scale all over the world , something we 'd never been able to do before . Called trackyourhappiness.org , it uses the iPhone to monitor people 's happiness in real time . How does this work ? Basically , I send people signals at random points throughout the day , and then I ask them a bunch of questions about their moment-to-moment experience at the instant just before the signal . The idea is that , if we can watch how people 's happiness goes up and down over the course of the day , minute to minute in some cases , and try to understand how what people are doing , who they 're with , what they 're thinking about , and all the other factors that describe our day , how those might relate to those changes in happiness , we might be able to discover some of the things that really have a big influence on happiness . We 've been fortunate with this project to collect quite a lot of data , a lot more data of this kind than I think has ever been collected before , over 650,000 real-time reports from over 15,000 people . And it 's not just a lot of people , it 's a really diverse group , people from a wide range of ages , from 18 to late 80s , a wide range of incomes , education levels , people who are married , divorced , widowed , etc . They collectively represent every one of 86 occupational categories and hail from over 80 countries . What I 'd like to do with the rest of my time with you today is talk a little bit about one of the areas that we 've been investigating , and that 's mind-wandering . As human beings , we have this unique ability to have our minds stray away from the present . This guy is sitting here working on his computer , and yet he could be thinking about the vacation he had last month , wondering what he 's going to have for dinner . Maybe he 's worried that he 's going bald . ( Laughter ) This ability to focus our attention on something other than the present is really amazing . Well , since I 'm a scientist , I 'd like to try to resolve this debate with some data , and in particular I 'd like to present some data to you from three questions that I ask with Track Your Happiness . So what did we find ? This graph shows happiness on the vertical axis , and you can see that bar there representing how happy people are when they 're focused on the present , when they 're not mind-wandering . So how could this be happening ? I think part of the reason , a big part of the reason , is that when our minds wander , we often think about unpleasant things , and they are enormously less happy when they do that , our worries , our anxieties , our regrets , and yet even when people are thinking about something neutral , they 're still considerably less happy than when they 're not mind-wandering at all . So I 've been talking about this , suggesting , perhaps , that mind-wandering causes unhappiness , but all I 've really shown you is that these two things are correlated . A few minutes ago , I likened mind-wandering to a slot machine you 'd never want to play . In my talk today , I 've told you a little bit about mind-wandering , a variable that I think turns out to be fairly important in the equation for happiness . 