Everything I do , and everything I do professionally -- my life -- has been shaped by seven years of work as a young man in Africa . From 1971 to 1977 -- I look young , but I 'm not — ( Laughter ) -- I worked in Zambia , Kenya , Ivory Coast , Algeria , Somalia , in projects of technical cooperation with African countries . I worked for an Italian NGO , and every single project that we set up in Africa failed . Our first project , the one that has inspired my first book , `` Ripples from the Zambezi , '' was a project where we Italians decided to teach Zambian people how to grow food . And of course , everything in Africa grew beautifully . And we said to the Zambians , `` My God , the hippos ! '' And the Zambians said , `` Yes , that 's why we have no agriculture here . `` Why did n't you tell us ? `` `` You never asked . I thought it was only us Italians blundering around Africa , but then I saw what the Americans were doing , what the English were doing , what the French were doing , and after seeing what they were doing , I became quite proud of our project in Zambia . You should see the rubbish — ( Applause ) -- You should see the rubbish that we have bestowed on unsuspecting African people . We Western people are imperialist , colonialist missionaries , and there are only two ways we deal with people : We either patronize them , or we are paternalistic . I was given a slap in the face reading a book , `` Small is Beautiful , '' written by Schumacher , who said , above all in economic development , if people do not wish to be helped , leave them alone . I decided when I was 27 years old to only respond to people , and I invented a system called Enterprise Facilitation , where you never initiate anything , you never motivate anybody , but you become a servant of the local passion , the servant of local people who have a dream to become a better person . The most important thing is passion . So years and years ago , I had this idea : Why do n't we , for once , instead of arriving in the community to tell people what to do , why do n't , for once , listen to them ? But not in community meetings . Let me tell you a secret . What we do , we work one-on-one , and to work one-on-one , you have to create a social infrastructure that does n't exist . I started this as a tryout in Esperance , in Western Australia . So — ( Applause ) — So the government says , `` Do it again . Peter Drucker , one of the greatest management consultants in history , died age 96 , a few years ago . So now you 're rebuilding Christchurch without knowing what the smartest people in Christchurch want to do with their own money and their own energy . So what I 'm saying is that entrepreneurship is where it 's at . There 's a lovely story that I read in a futurist magazine many , many years ago . So what happens ? In 40 years ' time , in the year 1900 , in the United States of America , there were 1,001 car manufacturing companies -- 1,001 . However , there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs . Thank you . 