I am no designer , nope , no way . My dad was , which is kind of an interesting way to grow up . I had to figure out what it is my dad did and why it was important . Dad talked a lot about bad design when we were growing up , you know , `` Bad design is just people not thinking , John , '' he would say whenever a kid would be injured by a rotary lawn mower or , say , a typewriter ribbon would get tangled or an eggbeater would get jammed in the kitchen . You know , `` Design -- bad design , there 's just no excuse for it . It 's letting stuff happen without thinking about it . Every object should be about something , John . It should imagine a user . It should cast that user in a story starring the user and the object . Good design , '' my dad said , `` is about supplying intent . '' That 's what he said . Dad helped design the control panels for the IBM 360 computer . That was a big deal ; that was important . He worked for Kodak for a while ; that was important . He designed chairs and desks and other office equipment for Steelcase ; that was important . I knew design was important in my house because , for heaven 's sake , it put food on our table , right ? And design was in everything my dad did . He had a Dixieland jazz band when we were growing up , and he would always cover Louis Armstrong tunes . And I would ask him every once in a while , `` Dad , do you want it to sound like the record ? '' We had lots of old jazz records lying around the house . And he said , `` No , never , John , never . The song is just a given , that 's how you have to think about it . You got ta make it your own . You got ta design it . Show everyone what you intend , '' is what he said . `` Doing that , acting by design , is what we all should be doing . It 's where we all belong . '' All of us ? Designers ? Oh , oh , Dad . Oh , Dad . The song is just a given . It 's how you cover it that matters . Well , let 's hold on to that thought for just a minute . It 's kind of like this wheelchair I 'm in , right ? The original tune ? It 's a little scary . `` Ooh , what happened to that dude ? He ca n't walk . Anybody know the story ? Anybody ? '' I do n't like to talk about this very much , but I 'll tell you guys the story today . All right , exactly 36 years ago this week , that 's right , I was in a poorly designed automobile that hit a poorly designed guardrail on a poorly designed road in Pennsylvania , and plummeted down a 200-foot embankment and killed two people in the car . But ever since then , the wheelchair has been a given in my life . My life , at the mercy of good design and bad design . Think about it . Now , in design terms , a wheelchair is a very difficult object . It mostly projects tragedy and fear and misfortune , and it projects that message , that story , so strongly that it almost blots out anything else . I roll swiftly through an airport , right ? And moms grab their kids out of the way and say , `` Do n't stare ! '' The poor kid , you know , has this terrified look on his face , God knows what they think . And for decades , I 'm going , why does this happen ? What can I do about it ? How can I change this ? I mean there must be something . So I would roll , I 'd make no eye contact -- just kinda frown , right ? Or I 'd dress up really , really sharply or something . Or I 'd make eye contact with everyone -- that was really creepy ; that did n't work at all . ( Laughter ) You know anything , I 'd try . Nothing whatsoever worked until a few years ago , my six-year-old daughters were looking at this wheelchair catalog that I had , and they said , `` Oh , Dad ! Dad ! Look , you got ta get these , these flashy wheels -- you got ta get 'em ! '' And I said , `` Oh , girls , Dad is a very important journalist , that just would n't do at all . And of course , they immediately concluded , `` Oh , what a bummer , Dad . I went , `` Wait a minute , all right , right -- I 'll get the wheels . I got the flashy wheels , and I installed them and -- check this out . So what you are looking at here has completely changed my life , I mean totally changed my life . People going , `` Awesome wheels , dude ! Those are awesome ! I mean , I want some of those wheels ! '' Little kids say , `` Can I have a ride ? '' ( Laughter ) And of course there 's the occasional person -- usually a middle-aged male who will say , `` Oh , those wheels are great ! I guess they 're for safety , right ? '' ( Laughter ) No ! They 're not for safety . What 's the difference here , the wheelchair with no lights and the wheelchair with lights ? The difference is intent . Now it seems simple , but actually I think in our society and culture in general , we have a huge problem with intent . It 's as though intent is an essential component for humanity . Now here 's an example a little closer to home : My family is all about intent . He would say , `` You 're right between horse and squirrel , John . `` No need for birth control , Doc , are you sure about that ? '' `` John , John , I looked at your chart . Well ! ( Laughter ) What a liberating thought ! Yes ! And after a couple very liberating weekends , my wife and I , utilizing some cutting-edge erectile technology that is certainly worthy of a TEDTalk someday but I wo n't get into it now , we noticed some familiar , if unexpected , symptoms . I mean , did a designer come up with that ? No , I do n't think a designer did come up with that . But I never became a designer . `` The State in which the rulers are most reluctant to govern is always the best and most quietly governed , and the State in which they are most eager , the worst . Well , got that wrong , did n't we ? But look at that statement ; it 's all about intent . Today we do n't confront the chaos of nature . Here 's my favorite design moment : In the city of Kinshasa in Zaire in the 1990s , I was working for ABC News , and I was reporting on the fall of Mobutu Sese Seko , the dictator , the brutal dictator in Zaire , who raped and pillaged that country . He goes , `` Hey , mister ! Mister ! '' And I looked at him -- he did n't know any other English than that , but we did n't need English , no , no , no , no , no . And I pose this question . And I want to explain it to you now because this is a very special day . `` You 've had a terrible accident , young man . I said , `` I know all that -- what day is it ? '' You see , I knew that the car had gone over the guardrail on the 28th of February , and I knew that 1976 was a leap year . `` Nurse ! Is this the 28th or the 29th ? '' And she looked at me and said , `` It 's March 1st . And I went , `` Oh my God . To get back to this , to get back to design , and as my daddy suggested a long time ago , `` Make the song your own , John . Daddy , this one 's for you . ♫ Jo Jo was a man who thought he was a loner ♫ ♫ but he was another man . 