Hi . So , this chap here , he thinks he can tell you the future . His name is Nostradamus , although here the Sun have made him look a little bit like Sean Connery . ( Laughter ) And like most of you , I suspect , I do n't really believe that people can see into the future . So firstly , thinking just about precognition , as it turns out , just last year a researcher called Daryl Bem conducted a piece of research where he found evidence of precognitive powers in undergraduate students , and this was published in a peer-reviewed academic journal and most of the people who read this just said , `` Okay , well , fair enough , but I think that 's a fluke , that 's a freak , because I know that if I did a study where I found no evidence that undergraduate students had precognitive powers , it probably would n't get published in a journal . But it does n't just happen in the dry academic field of psychology . But it does n't just happen in the very dry world of preclinical basic science cancer research . Unfortunately , over the course of the next five , 10 years , other companies had the same idea about drugs that would prevent arrhythmias in people who have had heart attacks . Now actually , in 1993 , the researchers who did that 1980 study , that early study , published a mea culpa , an apology to the scientific community , in which they said , `` When we carried out our study in 1980 , we thought that the increased death rate that occurred in the lorcainide group was an effect of chance . Now these are stories from basic science . Now you might say , well , that 's an extremely unusual example , and I would n't want to be guilty of the same kind of cherry-picking and selective referencing that I 'm accusing other people of . In fact , there have been so many studies conducted on publication bias now , over a hundred , that they 've been collected in a systematic review , published in 2010 , that took every single study on publication bias that they could find . This is a cancer at the core of evidence-based medicine . And this is happening right now , today . And the most staggering thing of all of this , to me , is that not only is this a problem , not only do we recognize that this is a problem , but we 've had to suffer fake fixes . This is a disaster . And this is not a difficult problem to fix . 