What 's the scariest thing you 've ever done ? Or another way to say it is , what 's the most dangerous thing that you 've ever done ? And why did you do it ? I know what the most dangerous thing is that I 've ever done because NASA does the math . You look back to the first five shuttle launches , the odds of a catastrophic event during the first five shuttle launches was one in nine . And even when I first flew in the shuttle back in 1995 , 74 shuttle flight , the odds were still now that we look back about one in 38 or so -- one in 35 , one in 40 . Not great odds , so it 's a really interesting day when you wake up at the Kennedy Space Center and you 're going to go to space that day because you realize by the end of the day you 're either going to be floating effortlessly , gloriously in space , or you 'll be dead . You go into , at the Kennedy Space Center , the suit-up room , the same room that our childhood heroes got dressed in , that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin got suited in to go ride the Apollo rocket to the moon . And I got my pressure suit built around me and rode down outside in the van heading out to the launchpad -- in the Astro van -- heading out to the launchpad , and as you come around the corner at the Kennedy Space Center , it 's normally predawn , and in the distance , lit up by the huge xenon lights , is your spaceship -- the vehicle that is going to take you off the planet . The crew is sitting in the Astro van sort of hushed , almost holding hands , looking at that as it gets bigger and bigger . We ride the elevator up and we crawl in , on your hands and knees into the spaceship , one at a time , and you worm your way up into your chair and plunk yourself down on your back . And the hatch is closed , and suddenly , what has been a lifetime of both dreams and denial is becoming real , something that I dreamed about , in fact , that I chose to do when I was nine years old , is now suddenly within not too many minutes of actually happening . In the astronaut business -- the shuttle is a very complicated vehicle ; it 's the most complicated flying machine ever built . And in the astronaut business , we have a saying , which is , there is no problem so bad that you ca n't make it worse . ( Laughter ) And so you 're very conscious in the cockpit ; you 're thinking about all of the things that you might have to do , all the switches and all the wickets you have to go through . Chris Hadfield : It is incredibly powerful to be on board one of these things . It 's an amazing experience . In my case the answer is fairly straightforward . when my left eye went blind , and I did n't know why . So what 's the scariest thing you 've ever done ? ( Laughter ) Maybe it 's spiders . How do you get around it , though ? How do you change your behavior ? Well , next time you see a spiderweb , have a good look , make sure it 's not a black widow spider , and then walk into it . If you 're outside on a spacewalk and you 're blinded , your natural reaction would be to panic , I think . But the key to that is by looking at the difference between perceived danger and actual danger , where is the real risk ? What is the real thing that you should be afraid of ? Not just a generic fear of bad things happening . where you could see the hardpan south of the Sahara , or you can see New York City in a way that is almost dreamlike , or the unconscious gingham of Eastern Europe fields or the Great Lakes as a collection of small puddles . It 's time to come home at the end . 