So in 1781 , an English composer , technologist and astronomer called William Herschel noticed an object on the sky that did n't quite move the way the rest of the stars did . And Herschel 's recognition that something was different , that something was n't quite right , was the discovery of a planet , the planet Uranus , a name that has entertained countless generations of children , but a planet that overnight doubled the size of our known solar system . Just last month , NASA announced the discovery of 517 new planets in orbit around nearby stars , almost doubling overnight the number of planets we know about within our galaxy . So astronomy is constantly being transformed by this capacity to collect data , and with data almost doubling every year , within the next two decades , me may even reach the point for the first time in history where we 've discovered the majority of the galaxies within the universe . But as we enter this era of big data , what we 're beginning to find is there 's a difference between more data being just better and more data being different , capable of changing the questions we want to ask , and this difference is not about how much data we collect , it 's whether those data open new windows into our universe , whether they change the way we view the sky . So what is the next window into our universe ? What is the next chapter for astronomy ? Well , I 'm going to show you some of the tools and the technologies that we 're going to develop over the next decade , and how these technologies , together with the smart use of data , may once again transform astronomy by opening up a window into our universe , the window of time . Why time ? Well , time is about origins , and it 's about evolution . The origins of our solar system , how our solar system came into being , is it unusual or special in any way ? About the evolution of our universe . Why our universe is continuing to expand , and what is this mysterious dark energy that drives that expansion ? But first , I want to show you how technology is going to change the way we view the sky . So imagine if you were sitting in the mountains of northern Chile looking out to the west towards the Pacific Ocean a few hours before sunrise . This is the view of the night sky that you would see , and it 's a beautiful view , with the Milky Way just peeking out over the horizon . but it 's also a static view , and in many ways , this is the way we think of our universe : eternal and unchanging . But the universe is anything but static . It constantly changes on timescales of seconds to billions of years . Galaxies merge , they collide at hundreds of thousands of miles per hour . Stars are born , they die , they explode in these extravagant displays . In fact , if we could go back to our tranquil skies above Chile , and we allow time to move forward to see how the sky might change over the next year , the pulsations that you see are supernovae , the final remnants of a dying star exploding , brightening and then fading from view , each one of these supernovae five billion times the brightness of our sun , so we can see them to great distances but only for a short amount of time . Ten supernova per second explode somewhere in our universe . If we could hear it , it would be popping like a bag of popcorn . Now , if we fade out the supernovae , it 's not just brightness that changes . Our sky is in constant motion . This swarm of objects you see streaming across the sky are asteroids as they orbit our sun , and it 's these changes and the motion and it 's the dynamics of the system that allow us to build our models for our universe , to predict its future and to explain its past . But the telescopes we 've used over the last decade are not designed to capture the data at this scale . The Hubble Space Telescope : for the last 25 years it 's been producing some of the most detailed views of our distant universe , but if you tried to use the Hubble to create an image of the sky , it would take 13 million individual images , about 120 years to do this just once . So this is driving us to new technologies and new telescopes , telescopes that can go faint to look at the distant universe but also telescopes that can go wide to capture the sky as rapidly as possible , telescopes like the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope , or the LSST , possibly the most boring name ever for one of the most fascinating experiments in the history of astronomy , in fact proof , if you should need it , that you should never allow a scientist or an engineer to name anything , not even your children . ( Laughter ) We 're building the LSST . Now , thousands of discoveries will come from this project , but I 'm just going to tell you about two of the ideas about origins and evolution that may be transformed by our access to data at this scale . In the last five years , NASA has discovered over 1,000 planetary systems around nearby stars , but the systems we 're finding are n't much like our own solar system , and one of the questions we face is is it just that we have n't been looking hard enough or is there something special or unusual about how our solar system formed ? And if we want to answer that question , we have to know and understand the history of our solar system in detail , and it 's the details that are crucial . So what does this tell us ? Well , if you look at the little yellow asteroids flitting across the screen , these are the asteroids that are moving fastest , because they 're closest to us , closest to Earth . Now when we get distance , we get to see the asteroids in their natural habitat , in orbit around the sun . Now , distance and changes in our universe — distance equates to time , as well as changes on the sky . The first time was in 1929 , when an astronomer called Edwin Hubble showed that the universe was expanding , leading to the ideas of the Big Bang . A second revolution happened 70 years later , when two groups of astronomers showed that the universe was n't just expanding , it was accelerating , a surprise like throwing up a ball into the sky and finding out the higher that it gets , the faster it moves away . Small changes give rise to big consequences . So what is the next revolution likely to be ? Well , what is dark energy and why does it exist ? Each of these lines shows a different model for what dark energy might be , showing the properties of dark energy . So how can we hope to make sense of this over the next decade ? Well , imagine if I gave you a pair of dice , and I said you wanted to see whether those dice were loaded or fair . Now , in many ways , the questions that I posed are in reality the simplest of questions . Thank you . ( Applause ) 