So little Billy goes to school , and he sits down and the teacher says , `` What does your father do ? '' And little Billy says , `` My father plays the piano in an opium den . '' So the teacher rings up the parents , and says , `` Very shocking story from little Billy today . Just heard that he claimed that you play the piano in an opium den . '' And the father says , `` I 'm very sorry . Yes , it 's true , I lied . But how can I tell an eight-year-old boy that his father is a politician ? '' ( Laughter ) Now , as a politician myself , standing in front of you , or indeed , meeting any stranger anywhere in the world , when I eventually reveal the nature of my profession , they look at me as though I 'm somewhere between a snake , a monkey and an iguana , and through all of this , I feel , strongly , that something is going wrong . And this is n't just a problem in Britain . Ten years ago , however , the promise of democracy seemed to be extraordinary . Since then , what 's happened ? Well , what we 've seen is the creation , in places like Iraq and Afghanistan , of democratic systems of government which have n't had any of those side benefits . Well , what is the answer to this ? Is the answer to just give up on the idea of democracy ? Well , obviously not . So we need to acknowledge that despite the dubious statistics , despite the fact that 84 percent of people in Britain feel politics is broken , despite the fact that when I was in Iraq , we did an opinion poll in 2003 and asked people what political systems they preferred , and the answer came back that seven percent wanted the United States , five percent wanted France , three percent wanted Britain , and nearly 40 percent wanted Dubai , which is , after all , not a democratic state at all but a relatively prosperous minor monarchy , democracy is a thing of value for which we should be fighting . The point about democracy is not instrumental . But if we 're really to make democracy vigorous again , if we 're ready to revivify it , we need to get involved in a new project of the citizens and the politicians . And the second thing we should do is understand the genius of our societies . That can mean different things in different countries . But for any of these things to work , the honesty in language , the local democracy , it 's not just a question of what politicians do . In other words , if democracy is to be rebuilt , is to become again vigorous and vibrant , it is necessary not just for the public to learn to trust their politicians , but for the politicians to learn to trust the public . 