What has the War on Drugs done to the world ? Look at the murder and mayhem in Mexico , Central America , so many other parts of the planet , the global black market estimated at 300 billion dollars a year , prisons packed in the United States and elsewhere , police and military drawn into an unwinnable war that violates basic rights , and ordinary citizens just hope they do n't get caught in the crossfire , and meanwhile , more people using more drugs than ever . It 's my country 's history with alcohol prohibition and Al Capone , times 50 . Which is why it 's particularly galling to me as an American that we 've been the driving force behind this global drug war . Ask why so many countries criminalize drugs they 'd never heard of , why the U.N. drug treaties emphasize criminalization over health , even why most of the money worldwide for dealing with drug abuse goes not to helping agencies but those that punish , and you 'll find the good old U.S. of A . Why did we do this ? Some people , especially in Latin America , think it 's not really about drugs . It 's just a subterfuge for advancing the realpolitik interests of the U.S . But by and large , that 's not it . We do n't want gangsters and guerrillas funded with illegal drug money terrorizing and taking over other nations . No , the fact is , America really is crazy when it comes to drugs . I mean , do n't forget , we 're the ones who thought that we could prohibit alcohol . So think about our global drug war not as any sort of rational policy , but as the international projection of a domestic psychosis . ( Applause ) But here 's the good news . Now it 's the Russians leading the Drug War and not us . Most politicians in my country want to roll back the Drug War now , put fewer people behind bars , not more , and I 'm proud to say as an American that we now lead the world in reforming marijuana policies . It 's now legal for medical purposes in almost half our 50 states , millions of people can purchase their marijuana , their medicine , in government- licensed dispensaries , and over half my fellow citizens now say it 's time to legally regulate and tax marijuana more or less like alcohol . That 's what Colorado and Washington are doing , and Uruguay , and others are sure to follow . So that 's what I do : work to end the Drug War . I think it all started growing up in a fairly religious , moral family , eldest son of a rabbi , going off to university where I smoked some marijuana and I liked it . ( Laughter ) And I liked drinking too , but it was obvious that alcohol was really the more dangerous of the two , but my friends and I could get busted for smoking a joint . Now , that hypocrisy kept bugging me , so I wrote my Ph.D dissertation on international drug control . So that 's when I started reading everything I could about psychoactive drugs : the history , the science , the politics , all of it , and the more one read , the more it hit you how a thoughtful , enlightened , intelligent approach took you over here , whereas the politics and laws of my country were taking you over here . There 's probably never been a drug-free society . I 'll tell you something else I learned , that the reason some drugs are legal and others not has almost nothing to do with science or health or the relative risk of drugs , and almost everything to do with who uses and who is perceived to use particular drugs . I used to be a professor teaching about this . So is legalization the answer ? On that , I 'm torn : three days a week I think yes , three days a week I think no , and on Sundays I 'm agnostic . Now , with marijuana , that obviously means legally regulating and taxing it like alcohol . As for the other drugs , look at Portugal , where nobody goes to jail for possessing drugs , and the government 's made a serious commitment to treating addiction as a health issue . Look at New Zealand , which recently enacted a law allowing certain recreational drugs to be sold legally provided their safety had been established . Conversely , think about cigarettes : Nothing can both hook you and kill you like cigarettes . So the challenges we face today are twofold . So here 's what I say to teenagers . So this is what I 've dedicated my life to , to building an organization and a movement of people who believe we need to turn our backs on the failed prohibitions of the past and embrace new drug policies grounded in science , compassion , health and human rights , where people who come from across the political spectrum and every other spectrum as well , where people who love our drugs , people who hate drugs , and people who do n't give a damn about drugs , but every one of us believes that this War on Drugs , this backward , heartless , disastrous War on Drugs , has got to end . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . Chris Anderson : Ethan , congrats — quite the reaction . Ethan Nadelmann : Chris , the most amazing thing that 's happened of late is that I 've met a growing number of people who have actually lost a sibling or a child to a drug overdose , and 10 years ago , those people just wanted to say , let 's line up all the drug dealers and shoot them and that will solve it . CA : Certainly in the U.S. , you 've got political gridlock on most issues . EN : I 'd say it 's quite remarkable . CA : Ethan , thank you so much for coming to TEDGlobal . CA : Thank you . 