I 'm going to talk about hackers . And the image that comes to your mind when I say that word is probably not of Benjamin Franklin , but I 'm going to explain to you why it should be . The image that comes to your mind is probably more likely of a pasty kid sitting in a basement doing something mischievous , or of a shady criminal who is trying to steal your identity , or of an international rogue with a political agenda . And mainstream culture has kind of fed this idea that hackers are people that we should be afraid of . But like most things in technology and the technology world , hacking has equal power for good as it has for evil . For every hacker that 's trying to steal your identity there 's one that 's building a tool that will help you find your loved ones after a disaster or to monitor environmental quality after an oil spill . Hacking is really just any amateur innovation on an existing system , and it is a deeply democratic activity . It 's about critical thinking . It 's about questioning existing ways of doing things . It 's the idea that if you see a problem , you work to fix it , and not just complain about it . And in many ways , hacking is what built America . Betsy Ross was a hacker . The Underground Railroad was a brilliant hack . And from the Wright brothers to Steve Jobs , hacking has always been at the foundation of American democracy . So if there 's one thing I want to leave you here with today , it 's that the next time you think about who a hacker is , you think not of this guy but of this guy , Benjamin Franklin , who was one of the greatest hackers of all time . He was one of America 's most prolific inventors , though he famously never filed a patent , because he thought that all human knowledge should be freely available . He brought us bifocals and the lightning rod , and of course there was his collaboration on the invention of American democracy . And in Code For America , we really try to embody the spirit of Ben Franklin . He was a tinkerer and a statesman whose conception of citizenship was always predicated on action . He believed that government could be built by the people , and we call those people civic hackers . So it 's no wonder that the values that underly a healthy democracy , like collaboration and empowerment and participation and enterprise , are the same values that underly the Internet . And so it 's no surprise that many hackers are turning their attention to the problem of government . But before I give you a few examples of what civic hacking looks like , I want to make clear that you do n't have to be a programmer to be a civic hacker . You just have to believe that you can bring a 21st-century tool set to bear on the problems that government faces . And we hear all the time from our community of civic hackers at Code for America that they did n't understand how much nontechnical work actually went into civic hacking projects . So keep that in mind . All of you are potential civic hackers . So what does civic hacking look like ? Our team last year in Honolulu , which in this case was three full-time fellows who were doing a year of public service , were asked by the city to rebuild the website . And it 's a massive thing of tens of thousands of pages which just was n't going to be possible in the few months that they had . So instead , they decided to build a parallel site that better conformed to how citizens actually want to interact with information on a city website . They 're looking for answers to questions , and they want to take action when they 're done , which is really hard to do from a site that looks like this . So our team built Honolulu Answers , which is a super-simple search interface where you enter a search term or a question and get back plain language answers that drive a user towards action . Now the site itself was easy enough to build , but the team was faced with the challenge of how they populate all of the content . It would have taken the three of them a very long time , especially given that none of them are actually from Honolulu . And so they did something that 's really radical , when you think about how government is used to working . They asked citizens to write the content . So you 've heard of a hack-a-thon . They held a write-a-thon , where on one Saturday afternoon -- ( `` What do I do about wild pigs being a nuisance ? '' ) ( Laughter ) — Wild pigs are a huge problem in Honolulu , apparently . Now , I think this is a really cool story in and of itself , but it gets more awesome . At this point , you may be wondering what city officials think of all this . Now I do n't want to leave the impression that civic hacking is just an American phenomenon . And so what you see in all three of these places , in Honolulu and in Oakland and in Mexico City , are the elements that are at the core of civic hacking . So back to our friend Ben Franklin , who , one of his lesser-known accomplishments was that in 1736 he founded the first volunteer firefighting company in Philadelphia , called a brigade . And we have our own brigades at Code for America working on the projects that I 've just described , and we want to ask you to follow in Ben Franklin 's footsteps and come join us . So please come hack with us . Thank you . ( Applause ) 