Chris Anderson : So , this is an interview with a difference . On the basis that a picture is worth a thousand words , what I did was , I asked Bill and Melinda to dig out from their archive some images that would help explain some of what they 've done , and do a few things that way . So , we 're going to start here . Melinda , when and where was this , and who is that handsome man next to you ? Melinda Gates : With those big glasses , huh ? This is in Africa , our very first trip , the first time either of us had ever been to Africa , in the fall of 1993 . We were already engaged to be married . We married a few months later , and this was the trip where we really went to see the animals and to see the savanna . It was incredible . Bill had never taken that much time off from work . But what really touched us , actually , were the people , and the extreme poverty . We started asking ourselves questions . Does it have to be like this ? And at the end of the trip , we went out to Zanzibar , and took some time to walk on the beach , which is something we had done a lot while we were dating . And we 'd already been talking about during that time that the wealth that had come from Microsoft would be given back to society , but it was really on that beach walk that we started to talk about , well , what might we do and how might we go about it ? CA : So , given that this vacation led to the creation of the world 's biggest private foundation , it 's pretty expensive as vacations go . ( Laughter ) MG : I guess so . CA : Which of you was the key instigator here , or was it symmetrical ? Bill Gates : Well , I think we were excited that there 'd be a phase of our life where we 'd get to work together and figure out how to give this money back . MG : Which Bill always thought was going to come after he was 60 , so he has n't quite hit 60 yet , so some things change along the way . CA : So it started there , but it got accelerated . MA : Yeah , in '97 , we read an article about diarrheal diseases killing so many kids around the world , and we kept saying to ourselves , `` Well that ca n't be . CA : So , you 've got a big pot of money and a world full of so many different issues . BG : Well , we decided that we 'd pick two causes , whatever the biggest inequity was globally , and there we looked at children dying , children not having enough nutrition to ever develop , and countries that were really stuck , because with that level of death , and parents would have so many kids that they 'd get huge population growth , and that the kids were so sick that they really could n't be educated and lift themselves up . CA : So , I asked each of you to pick an image that you like that illustrates your work , and Melinda , this is what you picked . MG : So I , one of the things I love to do when I travel is to go out to the rural areas and talk to the women , whether it 's Bangladesh , India , lots of countries in Africa , and I go in as a Western woman without a name . CA : Melinda , you 're Roman Catholic , and you 've often been embroiled in controversy over this issue , and on the abortion question , on both sides , really . MG : Yeah , so I think that 's a really important point , which is , we had backed away from contraceptives as a global community . CA : Bill , this is your graph . BG : Well , my graph has numbers on it . CA : I mean , you do the math on this , and it works out , I think , literally to thousands of kids ' lives saved every day compared to the prior year . BG : Yeah , because it 's a silent thing going on . CA : Maybe it needed someone who is turned on by numbers and graphs rather than just the big , sad face to get engaged . BG : Yeah , well people can take , there is some aid that was well-meaning and did n't go well . CA : Traditional wisdom is that it 's pretty hard for married couples to work together . CA : But now you are , and we 're very happy that you are . MG : Yeah . CA : That 's cool . MG : But that went away within three months , once he was there . BG : Including some of the employees . MG : That 's what I said , the employees , it went away for them three months after you were there . BG : No , I 'm kidding . BG : A few of them did , but — ( Laughter ) CA : So what do you guys argue about ? Sunday , 11 o'clock , you 're away from work , what comes up ? What 's the argument ? BG : Because we built this thing together from the beginning , it 's this great partnership . CA : How about you , Melinda , though ? Can you ? ( Laughter ) You never know . MG : Well , here 's the thing . CA : So , in vaccines and polio and so forth , you 've had some amazing successes . BG : Yeah . CA : You 're spending , like , a billion dollars a year in education , I think , something like that . MG : Well , I would say a huge lesson for us out of the early work is we thought that these small schools were the answer , and small schools definitely help . CA : So Melinda , this is you and your eldest daughter , Jenn . MG : So we went to Tanzania . CA : Oh , wow . MG : And her dad had told me how afraid he was that unlike the son , who had passed his secondary exams , because of her chores , she 'd not done so well and was n't in the government school yet . CA : I mean , this is another pic of your other two kids , Rory and Phoebe , along with Paul Farmer . BG : Well , I 'd say overall the kids get a great education , but you 've got to make sure they have a sense of their own ability and what they 're going to go and do , and our philosophy has been to be very clear with them -- most of the money 's going to the foundation -- and help them find something they 're excited about . CA : You 've obviously guarded their privacy carefully for obvious reasons . CA : You 've easily got enough money despite your vast contributions to the foundation to make them all billionaires . BG : Nope . CA : Well , speaking of Warren Buffett , something really amazing happened in 2006 , when somehow your only real rival for richest person in America suddenly turned around and agreed to give 80 percent of his fortune to your foundation . BG : All right . CA : Tweet that . BG : If he 's got somebody who is doing something well , and is willing to do it at no charge , maybe that 's okay . CA : And I think you 've pledged that by the time you 're done , more than , or 95 percent of your wealth , will be given to the foundation . BG : Yes . CA : And since this relationship , it 's amazing— ( Applause ) And recently , you and Warren have been going around trying to persuade other billionaires and successful people to pledge to give , what , more than half of their assets for philanthropy . MG : And having people see that other people are making change with philanthropy , I mean , these are people who have created their own businesses , put their own ingenuity behind incredible ideas . CA : It seems to me , it 's actually really hard for some people to figure out even how to remotely spend that much money on something else . BG : Well , it 's the most fulfilling thing we 've ever done , and you ca n't take it with you , and if it 's not good for your kids , let 's get together and brainstorm about what we can be done . CA : The world 's got this terrible inequality , growing inequality problem that seems structural . BG : Oh yeah . MG : But you change systems . BG : That 's the most important . CA : Well , I really think that most people here and many millions around the world are just in awe of the trajectory your lives have taken and the spectacular degree to which you have shaped the future . BG : Thank you . BG : Thank you . 