This is a story about capitalism . It 's a system I love because of the successes and opportunities it 's afforded me and millions of others . I started in my 20s trading commodities , cotton in particular , in the pits , and if there was ever a free market free-for-all , this was it , where men wearing ties but acting like gladiators fought literally and physically for a profit . Fortunately , I was good enough that by the time I was 30 , I was able to move into the upstairs world of money management , where I spent the next three decades as a global macro trader . And over that time , I 've seen a lot of crazy things in the markets , and I 've traded a lot of crazy manias . And unfortunately , I 'm sad to report that right now we might be in the grips of one of the most disastrous , certainly of my career , and one consistent takeaway is manias never end well . Now , over the past 50 years , we as a society have come to view our companies and corporations in a very narrow , almost monomaniacal fashion with regard to how we value them , and we have put so much emphasis on profits , on short-term quarterly earnings and share prices , at the exclusion of all else . It 's like we 've ripped the humanity out of our companies . Now , we do n't do that -- conveniently reduce something to a set of numbers that you can play with like Lego toys -- we do n't do that in our individual life . We do n't treat somebody or value them based on their monthly income or their credit score , but we have this double standard when it comes to the way that we value our businesses , and you know what ? It 's threatening the very underpinnings of our society . And here 's how you 'll see . This chart is corporate profit margins going back 40 years as a percentage of revenues , and you can see that we 're at a 40-year high of 12.5 percent . Now , hooray if you 're a shareholder , but if you 're the other side of that , and you 're the average American worker , then you can see it 's not such a good thing . [ `` U.S. Share of Income Going to Labor vs. CEO-to-Worker Compensation Ratio '' ] Now , higher profit margins do not increase societal wealth . What they actually do is they exacerbate income inequality , and that 's not a good thing . But intuitively , that makes sense , right ? Because if the top 10 percent of American families own 90 percent of the stocks , as they take a greater share of corporate profits , then there 's less wealth left for the rest of society . Again , income inequality is not a good thing . This next chart , made by The Equality Trust , shows 21 countries from Austria to Japan to New Zealand . On the horizontal axis is income inequality . The further to the right you go , the greater the income inequality . On the vertical axis are nine social and health metrics . The more you go up that , the worse the problems are , and those metrics include life expectancy , teenage pregnancy , literacy , social mobility , just to name a few . Now , those of you in the audience who are Americans may wonder , well , where does the United States rank ? Where does it lie on that chart ? And guess what ? We 're literally off the chart . Yes , that 's us , with the greatest income inequality and the greatest social problems , according to those metrics . Now , here 's a macro forecast that 's easy to make , and that 's , that gap between the wealthiest and the poorest , it will get closed . History always does it . It typically happens in one of three ways : either through revolution , higher taxes , or wars . None of those are on my bucket list . ( Laughter ) Now , there 's another way to do it , and that 's by increasing justness in corporate behavior , but the way that we 're operating right now , that would require a tremendous change in behavior , and like an addict trying to kick a habit , the first step is to acknowledge that you have a problem . In all fairness , when I started writing this , I thought , `` Oh wow , what does my company , what does Tudor do ? '' And I realized we give one percent of corporate profits to charity every year . Now , we 're not going to change corporate behavior by simply increasing corporate philanthropy or charitable contributions . Now , capitalism has been responsible for every major innovation that 's made this world a more inspiring and wonderful place to live in . `` If justice is removed , '' said Adam Smith , the father of capitalism , `` the great , the immense fabric of human society must in a moment crumble into atoms . Now , when I was young , and there was a problem , my mama used to always sigh and shake her head and say , `` Have mercy , have mercy . Thank you . ( Applause ) 