So last year , on the Fourth of July , experiments at the Large Hadron Collider discovered the Higgs boson . It was a historical day . There 's no doubt that from now on , the Fourth of July will be remembered not as the day of the Declaration of Independence , but as the day of the discovery of the Higgs boson . Well , at least , here at CERN . But for me , the biggest surprise of that day was that there was no big surprise . In the eye of a theoretical physicist , the Higgs boson is a clever explanation of how some elementary particles gain mass , but it seems a fairly unsatisfactory and incomplete solution . Too many questions are left unanswered . The Higgs boson does not share the beauty , the symmetry , the elegance , of the rest of the elementary particle world . For this reason , the majority of theoretical physicists believe that the Higgs boson could not be the full story . We were expecting new particles and new phenomena accompanying the Higgs boson . Instead , so far , the measurements coming from the LHC show no signs of new particles or unexpected phenomena . Of course , the verdict is not definitive . In 2015 , the LHC will almost double the energy of the colliding protons , and these more powerful collisions will allow us to explore further the particle world , and we will certainly learn much more . But for the moment , since we have found no evidence for new phenomena , let us suppose that the particles that we know today , including the Higgs boson , are the only elementary particles in nature , even at energies much larger than what we have explored so far . Let 's see where this hypothesis is going to lead us . We will find a surprising and intriguing result about our universe , and to explain my point , let me first tell you what the Higgs is about , and to do so , we have to go back to one tenth of a billionth of a second after the Big Bang . And according to the Higgs theory , at that instant , a dramatic event took place in the universe . Space-time underwent a phase transition . It was something very similar to the phase transition that occurs when water turns into ice below zero degrees . But in our case , the phase transition is not a change in the way the molecules are arranged inside the material , but is about a change of the very fabric of space-time . During this phase transition , empty space became filled with a substance that we now call Higgs field . And this substance may seem invisible to us , but it has a physical reality . It surrounds us all the time , just like the air we breathe in this room . And some elementary particles interact with this substance , gaining energy in the process . And this intrinsic energy is what we call the mass of a particle , and by discovering the Higgs boson , the LHC has conclusively proved that this substance is real , because it is the stuff the Higgs bosons are made of . And this , in a nutshell , is the essence of the Higgs story . But this story is far more interesting than that . By studying the Higgs theory , theoretical physicists discovered , not through an experiment but with the power of mathematics , that the Higgs field does not necessarily exist only in the form that we observe today . Just like matter can exist as liquid or solid , so the Higgs field , the substance that fills all space-time , could exist in two states . Besides the known Higgs state , there could be a second state in which the Higgs field is billions and billions times denser than what we observe today , and the mere existence of another state of the Higgs field poses a potential problem . This is because , according to the laws of quantum mechanics , it is possible to have transitions between two states , even in the presence of an energy barrier separating the two states , and the phenomenon is called , quite appropriately , quantum tunneling . Because of quantum tunneling , I could disappear from this room and reappear in the next room , practically penetrating the wall . But do n't expect me to actually perform the trick in front of your eyes , because the probability for me to penetrate the wall is ridiculously small . You would have to wait a really long time before it happens , but believe me , quantum tunneling is a real phenomenon , and it has been observed in many systems . For instance , the tunnel diode , a component used in electronics , works thanks to the wonders of quantum tunneling . But let 's go back to the Higgs field . If the ultra-dense Higgs state existed , then , because of quantum tunneling , a bubble of this state could suddenly appear in a certain place of the universe at a certain time , and it is analogous to what happens when you boil water . Bubbles of vapor form inside the water , then they expand , turning liquid into gas . In the same way , a bubble of the ultra-dense Higgs state could come into existence because of quantum tunneling . The bubble would then expand at the speed of light , invading all space , and turning the Higgs field from the familiar state into a new state . Is this a problem ? Yes , it 's a big a problem . We may not realize it in ordinary life , but the intensity of the Higgs field is critical for the structure of matter . If the Higgs field were only a few times more intense , we would see atoms shrinking , neutrons decaying inside atomic nuclei , nuclei disintegrating , and hydrogen would be the only possible chemical element in the universe . And the Higgs field , in the ultra-dense Higgs state , is not just a few times more intense than today , but billions of times , and if space-time were filled by this Higgs state , all atomic matter would collapse . No molecular structures would be possible , no life . So , I wonder , is it possible that in the future , the Higgs field will undergo a phase transition and , through quantum tunneling , will be transformed into this nasty , ultra-dense state ? In other words , I ask myself , what is the fate of the Higgs field in our universe ? And the crucial ingredient necessary to answer this question is the Higgs boson mass . And experiments at the LHC found that the mass of the Higgs boson is about 126 GeV . This is tiny when expressed in familiar units , because it 's equal to something like 10 to the minus 22 grams , but it is large in particle physics units , because it is equal to the weight of an entire molecule of a DNA constituent . So armed with this information from the LHC , together with some colleagues here at CERN , we computed the probability that our universe could quantum tunnel into the ultra-dense Higgs state , and we found a very intriguing result . Our calculations showed that the measured value of the Higgs boson mass is very special . It has just the right value to keep the universe hanging in an unstable situation . The Higgs field is in a wobbly configuration that has lasted so far but that will eventually collapse . So according to these calculations , we are like campers who accidentally set their tent at the edge of a cliff . And eventually , the Higgs field will undergo a phase transition and matter will collapse into itself . So is this how humanity is going to disappear ? I do n't think so . Our calculation shows that quantum tunneling of the Higgs field is not likely to occur in the next 10 to the 100 years , and this is a very long time . It 's even longer than the time it takes for Italy to form a stable government . ( Laughter ) Even so , we will be long gone by then . But the reason why I am interested in the transition of the Higgs field is because I want to address the question , why is the Higgs boson mass so special ? Why is it just right to keep the universe at the edge of a phase transition ? Theoretical physicists always ask `` why '' questions . My story does not have an end , because we still do n't know the end of the story . But I do n't know if my hypothesis is right . Thank you . ( Applause ) 