Twenty-three years ago , at the age of 19 , I shot and killed a man . I was a young drug dealer with a quick temper and a semi-automatic pistol . But that was n't the end of my story . In fact , it was beginning , and the 23 years since is a story of acknowledgment , apology and atonement . But it did n't happen in the way that you might imagine or think . These things occurred in my life in a way that was surprising , especially to me . See , like many of you , growing up , I was an honor roll student , a scholarship student , with dreams of becoming a doctor . But things went dramatically wrong when my parents separated and eventually divorced . The actual events are pretty straightforward . At the age of 17 , I got shot three times standing on the corner of my block in Detroit . My friend rushed me to the hospital . Doctors pulled the bullets out , patched me up , and sent me back to the same neighborhood where I got shot . Throughout this ordeal , no one hugged me , no one counseled me , no one told me I would be okay . No one told me that I would live in fear , that I would become paranoid , or that I would react hyper-violently to being shot . No one told me that one day , I would become the person behind the trigger . Fourteen months later , at 2 a.m. , I fired the shots that caused a man 's death . When I entered prison , I was bitter , I was angry , I was hurt . I did n't want to take responsibility . I blamed everybody from my parents to the system . I rationalized my decision to shoot because in the hood where I come from , it 's better to be the shooter than the person getting shot . As I sat in my cold cell , I felt helpless , unloved and abandoned . I felt like nobody cared , and I reacted with hostility to my confinement . And I found myself getting deeper and deeper into trouble . I ran black market stores , I loan sharked , and I sold drugs that were illegally smuggled into the prison . I had in fact become what the warden of the Michigan Reformatory called `` the worst of the worst . '' And because of my activity , I landed in solitary confinement for seven and a half years out of my incarceration . Now as I see it , solitary confinement is one of the most inhumane and barbaric places you can find yourself , but find myself I did . One day , I was pacing my cell , when an officer came and delivered mail . I looked at a couple of letters before I looked at the letter that had my son 's squiggly handwriting on it . And anytime I would get a letter from my son , it was like a ray of light in the darkest place you can imagine . And on this particular day , I opened this letter , and in capital letters , he wrote , `` My mama told me why you was in prison : murder . '' He said , `` Dad , do n't kill . Jesus watches what you do . Pray to Him . '' Now , I was n't religious at that time , nor am I religious now , but it was something so profound about my son 's words . They made me examine things about my life that I had n't considered . It was the first time in my life that I had actually thought about the fact that my son would see me as a murderer . I sat back on my bunk and I reflected on something I had read in [ Plato ] , where Socrates stated in `` Apology '' that the unexamined life is n't worth living . At that point is when the transformation began . But it did n't come easy . One of the things I realized , which was part of the transformation , was that there were four key things . The first thing was , I had great mentors . Now , I know some of you all are probably thinking , how did you find a great mentor in prison ? But in my case , some of my mentors who are serving life sentences were some of the best people to ever come into my life , because they forced me to look at my life honestly , and they forced me to challenge myself about my decision making . The second thing was literature . Prior to going to prison , I did n't know that there were so many brilliant black poets , authors and philosophers , and then I had the great fortune of encountering Malcolm X 's autobiography , and it shattered every stereotype I had about myself . The third thing was family . For 19 years , my father stood by my side with an unshakable faith , because he believed that I had what it took to turn my life around . I also met an amazing woman who is now the mother of my two-year-old son Sekou , and she taught me how to love myself in a healthy way . The final thing was writing . When I got that letter from my son , I began to write a journal about things I had experienced in my childhood and in prison , and what it did is it opened up my mind to the idea of atonement . Earlier in my incarceration , I had received a letter from one of the relatives of my victim , and in that letter , she told me she forgave me , because she realized I was a young child who had been abused and had been through some hardships and just made a series of poor decisions . It was the first time in my life that I ever felt open to forgiving myself . One of the things that happened after that experience is that I thought about the other men who were incarcerated alongside of me , and how much I wanted to share this with them . And so I started talking to them about some of their experiences , and I was devastated to realize that most of them came from the same abusive environments , And most of them wanted help and they wanted to turn it around , but unfortunately the system that currently holds 2.5 million people in prison is designed to warehouse as opposed to rehabilitate or transform . So I made it up in my mind that if I was ever released from prison that I would do everything in my power to help change that . In 2010 , I walked out of prison for the first time after two decades . Now imagine , if you will , Fred Flintstone walking into an episode of `` The Jetsons . '' That was pretty much what my life was like . For the first time , I was exposed to the Internet , social media , cars that talk like KITT from `` Knight Rider . '' But the thing that fascinated me the most was phone technology . See , when I went to prison , our car phones were this big and required two people to carry them . So imagine what it was like when I first grabbed my little Blackberry and I started learning how to text . But the thing is , the people around me , they did n't realize that I had no idea what all these abbreviated texts meant , like LOL , OMG , LMAO , until one day I was having a conversation with one of my friends via text , and I asked him to do something , and he responded back , `` K. '' And I was like , `` What is K ? '' And he was like , `` K is okay . '' So in my head , I was like , `` Well what the hell is wrong with K ? '' And so I text him a question mark . And he said , `` K = okay . '' And so I tap back , `` FU . '' ( Laughter ) And then he texts back , and he asks me why was I cussing him out . And so fast forward three years , I 'm doing relatively good . Through my experience of being locked up , one of the things I discovered is this : the majority of men and women who are incarcerated are redeemable , and the fact is , 90 percent of the men and women who are incarcerated will at some point return to the community , and we have a role in determining what kind of men and women return to our community . My wish today is that we will embrace a more empathetic approach toward how we deal with mass incarceration , that we will do away with the lock-them-up-and-throw-away-the-key mentality , because it 's proven it does n't work . My journey is a unique journey , but it does n't have to be that way . Thank you . ( Applause ) 