I 'm a teacher and a practitioner of civics in America . Now , I will kindly ask those of you who have just fallen asleep to please wake up . ( Laughter ) Why is it that the very word `` civics '' has such a soporific , even a narcoleptic effect on us ? I think it 's because the very word signifies something exceedingly virtuous , exceedingly important , and exceedingly boring . This is what I want to talk about today , and I want to start by defining some terms and then I want to describe the scale of the problem I think we face and then suggest the ways that I believe cities can be the seat of the solution . And that brings me to my definition of power , which is simply this : the capacity to make others do what you would have them do . This is why it is so fundamental for us right now to grab hold of this idea of power and to democratize it . As a result of all of this creeping fatalism in public life , we here , particularly in America today , have depressingly low levels of civic knowledge , civic engagement , participation , awareness . Well , this problem , this challenge , is a thing that we must now confront , and I believe that when you have this kind of disengagement , this willful ignorance , it becomes both a cause and a consequence of this concentration of opportunity of wealth and clout that I was describing a moment ago , this profound civic inequality . Now , part of the art of practicing power means being awake and having a voice , but it also is about having an arena where you can plausibly practice deciding . And this brings me to the third point that I want to make today , which is simply that there is no better arena in our time for the practicing of power than the city . This is not some Game of Thrones empire-level set of questions . Now I want you to return to thinking about that problem or that opportunity or that challenge in your city , and the thing it was that you want to fix or create in your city , and ask yourself , do you have command of these elemental questions of power ? Could you put into practice effectively what it is that you know ? This is the challenge and the opportunity for us . We live in a time right now where in spite of globalization or perhaps because of globalization , all citizenship is ever more resonantly , powerfully local . And our task now is to accelerate this work . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 