All right . So , like all good stories , this starts a long , long time ago when there was basically nothing . So here is a complete picture of the universe about 14-odd billion years ago . All energy is concentrated into a single point of energy . For some reason it explodes , and you begin to get these things . So you 're now about 14 billion years into this . And these things expand and expand and expand into these giant galaxies , and you get trillions of them . And within these galaxies you get these enormous dust clouds . And I want you to pay particular attention to the three little prongs in the center of this picture . If you take a close-up of those , they look like this . And what you 're looking at is columns of dust where there 's so much dust -- by the way , the scale of this is a trillion vertical miles -- and what 's happening is there 's so much dust , it comes together and it fuses and ignites a thermonuclear reaction . And so what you 're watching is the birth of stars . These are stars being born out of here . When enough stars come out , they create a galaxy . This one happens to be a particularly important galaxy , because you are here . ( Laughter ) And as you take a close-up of this galaxy , you find a relatively normal , not particularly interesting star . By the way , you 're now about two-thirds of the way into this story . And soon thereafter there 's enough material left over that you get a primordial soup , and that creates life . ( Laughter ) Now the really strange thing is life goes kaput , not once , not twice , but five times . So within that context , there 's two theories of the case as to why we 're all here . ( Laughter ) The only question you might want to ask yourself is , could that be just mildly arrogant ? And if it is -- and particularly given the fact that we came very close to extinction . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So maybe you have to think about a second theory if the first one is n't good enough . And as you 're thinking about this , you might also ask the question : So why a single human species ? Would n't it be really odd if you went to Africa and Asia and Antarctica and found exactly the same bird -- particularly given that we co-existed at the same time with at least eight other versions of humanoid at the same time on this planet ? So the normal state of affairs is not to have just a Homo sapiens ; the normal state of affairs is to have various versions of humans walking around . And if that is the normal state of affairs , then you might ask yourself , all right , so if we want to create something else , how big does a mutation have to be ? Well Svante Paabo has the answer . ( Laughter ) But as you 're thinking about this , one of the interesting things is how small these mutations are and where they take place . And as you 're thinking about this , we 're continuing to mutate . And as it continues , one of the things that 's going to happen this year is we 're going to discover the first 10,000 human genomes , because it 's gotten cheap enough to do the gene sequencing . And by the way , this is not a debate that we 're ready for , because we have really misused the science in this . And as we think about that , we 're actually beginning to find things like , do you have an ACE gene ? Why would that matter ? Because nobody 's ever climbed an 8,000-meter peak without oxygen that does n't have an ACE gene . If that is true , it leads to some very complicated questions for the London Olympics . And it turns out that as we discover these things , we human beings really like to change how we look , how we act , what our bodies do . You already saw the work by Tony Atala on TED , but this ability to start filling things like inkjet cartridges with cells are allowing us to print skin , organs and a whole series of other body parts . And as you 're thinking about these two guys sequencing a human genome in 2000 and the Public Project sequencing the human genome in 2000 , then you do n't hear a lot , until you hear about an experiment last year in China , where they take skin cells from this mouse , put four chemicals on it , turn those skin cells into stem cells , let the stem cells grow and create a full copy of that mouse . That 's a big deal . And as you think of that , what it means is potentially you can rebuild a full copy of any organism out of any one of its cells . Here 's a second experiment : If you could photocopy your body , maybe you also want to take your mind . So what 's the bottom line on that ? Well it 's not completely inconceivable that someday you 'll be able to download your own memories , maybe into a new body . Here 's the kind of questions that are becoming interesting questions for philosophers , for governing people , for economists , for scientists . And as you think about it , let me close with an example of the brain . Do we have any evidence that that is happening ? Well let 's take a look at something like autism incidence per thousand . But one question you might want to ask is , are we seeing a rapid evolution of the brain and of how we process data ? Because when you think of how much data 's coming into our brains , we 're trying to take in as much data in a day as people used to take in in a lifetime . One option is the fast food fetish . A second option is the sexy geek option . The third , is this too much information ? We 're trying to process so much stuff that some people get synesthetic and just have huge pipes that remember everything . But when you see an increase of that order of magnitude in a condition , either you 're not measuring it right or there 's something going on very quickly , and it may be evolution in real time . Here 's the bottom line . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) 