So raise your hand if you know someone in your immediate family or circle of friends who suffers from some form of mental illness . Yeah . I thought so . Not surprised . And raise your hand if you think that basic research on fruit flies has anything to do with understanding mental illness in humans . Yeah . I thought so . I 'm also not surprised . I can see I 've got my work cut out for me here . As we heard from Dr. Insel this morning , psychiatric disorders like autism , depression and schizophrenia take a terrible toll on human suffering . We know much less about their treatment and the understanding of their basic mechanisms than we do about diseases of the body . Think about it : In 2013 , the second decade of the millennium , if you 're concerned about a cancer diagnosis and you go to your doctor , you get bone scans , biopsies and blood tests . In 2013 , if you 're concerned about a depression diagnosis , you go to your doctor , and what do you get ? A questionnaire . Now , part of the reason for this is that we have an oversimplified and increasingly outmoded view of the biological basis of psychiatric disorders . We tend to view them -- and the popular press aids and abets this view -- as chemical imbalances in the brain , as if the brain were some kind of bag of chemical soup full of dopamine , serotonin and norepinephrine . This view is conditioned by the fact that many of the drugs that are prescribed to treat these disorders , like Prozac , act by globally changing brain chemistry , as if the brain were indeed a bag of chemical soup . But that ca n't be the answer , because these drugs actually do n't work all that well . A lot of people wo n't take them , or stop taking them , because of their unpleasant side effects . These drugs have so many side effects because using them to treat a complex psychiatric disorder is a bit like trying to change your engine oil by opening a can and pouring it all over the engine block . Some of it will dribble into the right place , but a lot of it will do more harm than good . Now , an emerging view that you also heard about from Dr. Insel this morning , is that psychiatric disorders are actually disturbances of neural circuits that mediate emotion , mood and affect . When we think about cognition , we analogize the brain to a computer . That 's no problem . Well it turns out that the computer analogy is just as valid for emotion . It 's just that we do n't tend to think about it that way . But we know much less about the circuit basis of psychiatric disorders because of the overwhelming dominance of this chemical imbalance hypothesis . Now , it 's not that chemicals are not important in psychiatric disorders . It 's just that they do n't bathe the brain like soup . Rather , they 're released in very specific locations and they act on specific synapses to change the flow of information in the brain . So if we ever really want to understand the biological basis of psychiatric disorders , we need to pinpoint these locations in the brain where these chemicals act . Otherwise , we 're going to keep pouring oil all over our mental engines and suffering the consequences . Now to begin to overcome our ignorance of the role of brain chemistry in brain circuitry , it 's helpful to work on what we biologists call `` model organisms , '' animals like fruit flies and laboratory mice , in which we can apply powerful genetic techniques to molecularly identify and pinpoint specific classes of neurons , as you heard about in Allan Jones 's talk this morning . Moreover , once we can do that , we can actually activate specific neurons or we can destroy or inhibit the activity of those neurons . So if we inhibit a particular type of neuron , and we find that a behavior is blocked , we can conclude that those neurons are necessary for that behavior . On the other hand , if we activate a group of neurons and we find that that produces the behavior , we can conclude that those neurons are sufficient for the behavior . So in this way , by doing this kind of test , we can draw cause and effect relationships between the activity of specific neurons in particular circuits and particular behaviors , something that is extremely difficult , if not impossible , to do right now in humans . But can an organism like a fruit fly , which is -- it 's a great model organism because it 's got a small brain , it 's capable of complex and sophisticated behaviors , it breeds quickly , and it 's cheap . But can an organism like this teach us anything about emotion-like states ? Do these organisms even have emotion-like states , or are they just little digital robots ? Charles Darwin believed that insects have emotion and express them in their behaviors , as he wrote in his 1872 monograph on the expression of the emotions in man and animals . And my eponymous colleague , Seymour Benzer , believed it as well . Seymour is the man that introduced the use of drosophila here at CalTech in the '60s as a model organism to study the connection between genes and behavior . Seymour recruited me to CalTech in the late 1980s . He was my Jedi and my rabbi while he was here , and Seymour taught me both to love flies and also to play with science . So how do we ask this question ? It 's one thing to believe that flies have emotion-like states , but how do we actually find out whether that 's true or not ? Now , in humans we often infer emotional states , as you 'll hear later today , from facial expressions . However , it 's a little difficult to do that in fruit flies . ( Laughter ) It 's kind of like landing on Mars and looking out the window of your spaceship at all the little green men who are surrounding it and trying to figure out , `` How do I find out if they have emotions or not ? '' What can we do ? It 's not so easy . Well , one of the ways that we can start is to try to come up with some general characteristics or properties of emotion-like states such as arousal , and see if we can identify any fly behaviors that might exhibit some of those properties . So we decided to see if flies could be provoked into showing the kind of behavior that you see by the proverbial wasp at the picnic table , you know , the one that keeps coming back to your hamburger the more vigorously you try to swat it away , and it seems to keep getting irritated . So now we wanted to try to understand something about what controls the duration of this state . Now , in genetics , it 's a little counterintuitive . Now , how far does this analogy go ? As many of you know , individuals afflicted with ADHD also have learning disabilities . So that means that these flies have two abnormalities , or phenotypes , as we geneticists call them , that one finds in ADHD : hyperactivity and learning disability . Now people have been wondering about this for a long time in humans , but in flies we can actually test this . Remarkably , we find we can completely dissociate these two abnormalities . So these results make me and my colleagues more convinced than ever that the brain is not a bag of chemical soup , and it 's a mistake to try to treat complex psychiatric disorders just by changing the flavor of the soup . 